was told that one day I could wake up deaf. It was the hardest news I
had to face. They did not have cochlear implants back then. I had to
learn to “deal” with it.
--
wrong with being White, Black, Latino, Russian, American, Hearing,
PURPLE, etc. Some feel that the Cochlear Implant is Genocide.
Yes, your child is deaf. You can cope, you can deal with it. You can
--
know. And when the time comes when they are old enough to make
decisions of their own . . . they can try this Cochlear Implant. It’s a
big risk and a very big decision to make. We want what’s best for our
--
CIs is very refreshing. It’s not a one-sided issue. Many seek to
implant the person without even knowing why the person is deaf! My
hearing loss is not really a “loss” because I don’t miss it! When I
became deaf there were no such things as cochlear implants. All I had
was a basic hearing-aid and being constructive myself about how to
--
problem with being deaf. Why should they? They are successful while
being deaf so a cochlear implant would not help them at all. My family
has helped a lot. I don’t believe a cochlear implant would take the
place of learning things from my family. I’ve also learned many things
--
to live with their being deaf as I have. Being deaf is being normal in
every sense of the word. No need for anything like a cochlear implant.
The Right to be Deaf
--
tell a deaf child that they are insufficient as they are? No one does.
Yet, many who try to implant them with a cochlear implant don’t realize
this! They try to tell the child that they are not good enough as they
--
they haven’t learned yet that they are not acceptable. I’ve known other
deaf who don’t have an implant and they are not troubled by being deaf.
What they are troubled by is the idea that some want to surgically
--
gamble that I refuse to take.
With this, Deaf culture is misunderstood by those who wish to implant
others. Deaf culture is human beings. Certainly, human beings have a
--
Being deaf doesn’t limit someone as much as misunderstanding it does.
That’s why before any parents try to implant their deaf child I believe
they need to understand that being deaf is only a difference. We can
--
Being deaf only means a different lifestyle and a different way of
learning things. A deaf person doesn’t need a cochlear implant to
urvive or to be successful! Success needs hard work. If a child gets
implanted then their work will not be in achieving success. Their hard
work will go to figuring out how to live and to figure out what’s wrong
with them. There’s NOTHING wrong with them! Then why did they get
implanted? Their parents had a problem with them being deaf! That
problem is not going to go away with the cochlear implant. That problem
will only get worse as the child tries to fit in with the other kids in
--
other kids. Then the child will really be disabled. And that’s the sad
part. But if the child is not implanted then they can be a child and
ee that the world is there for them to do whatever they wish with.
--
Why can’t people just accept us as we are? Why would they want to
change us into what we aren’t? Why would they want to implant deaf?
Some even want to implant all deaf! What has this world come to?
We have not lost the ability to be compassionate! We have not lost the
ability to understand ourselves and others. Then, why would someone
want to implant deaf babies? Why would someone want to implant deaf
kids? Why would someone want to implant deaf teenagers? Why would
omeone want to implant deaf adults?
My gosh! Have we lost the ability to understand? What on earth could a
--
person&#151;of any age&#151;is still two things. They are a human being
and they are themselves. How could implanting someone possibly do
better?
--
I know. If they have a problem with me being deaf then how is
implanting me going to solve that?
Whatever happened to understanding? Why do we have to put mechanics in
--
different? How is being deaf a problem? If someone has a problem with
my being deaf then putting a cochlear implant into me is not going to
help at all!!
--
without CI or HA?
Cochlear Implants can make you become totally deaf after you realize
that CI is not working for you at all. It is too late for any person
--
appropriate for people’s their negative emotions or feelings who have
the right to implant on Deaf children? I think not because it is still
carrying on the old behavior pattern cycles from these people’s own
--
becoming deaf as is. Just give them hearing aid if they like it or not
before Cochlear Implant device because it is totally unfair. You can
assume that they will hear everything as you are expecting them to have
--
If it’s not broken, don’t try to fix it
Hi, you are so right. Cochlear implants are just glorified hearing
aids, but for some one who doesn’t have the capacity to understand
--
now I can truly agree with them. It amazes me to see how badly, how far
parents would go to implant their child. Once, someone even begged for
money to fix their son’s CI. I used to long to be able to hear just so
--
wander for quite a while.
So, parents, please don’t implant your child when they are not old
enough to make their own decisions, and other deaf people (mostly the
