better. Anyways, I’ll let his words speak for himself:
I won’t criticize the issue of cochlear implant since I am not a
ubject of cochlear implant. Only people with cochlear implant can
either give feedback or criticize it. But with experience of
associating with people with cochelar implant or researching
information of good and bad sides of cochelar implant, people without
cochelar implant can justify the case. Hence, parents of cochlear
implanted children are foremost people without cochlear implant to
voice about it.
--
to communicate people who lack knowledge on sign language.
I am hearing more positive side of people with cochlear implant since
they are able to use spoken language fluently just like hearing people
--
I associate people who use ASL fluently.
If technology of cochlear implant occurs during my time I enter the
world, I know that I will have cochlear implant since I belong to a
majority group of deaf people since I come from hearing parents.
--
tudents at school. Now if my children are deaf, will they get cochlear
implant? I cannot answer that because it is not happening. Thank God
and I pray that my children will not lose their hearing since I know
--
correctly but I just learned that Sweden government are footing bills
on cochlear implant surgery for deaf children. In the past, it was
Sweden law that parents of deaf babies/children are referred to the
deaf communities that advocate sign language.
If people with cochlear implant are happy for what they are, these
matter me the most since if they are happy, then I am happy. If they
are sad, I will feel bad. So I have to say that people who criticize
about cochlear implant are truly deniers or another better word,
narrowed-minded whiners.
--
Coalition convention to harass AGB people. I say AGB people without
cochlear implant truly care for betterment of deaf children with
cochelar implant or oral skills who have better opportunity than deaf
children without cochlear implant due to job market where the world is
run dominately by spoken language. For people who advocate DBC, don’t
you find anything more exciting than just being so obsessed with your
disagreement with the agendas of AGB. Cochlear implant are here to stay
and it is sad to note that the deaf culture is becoming smaller and
--
ince I wish I have oral skills due so I have lot of choice to make. I
don’t blame for parents who choose cochlear implant surgery for their
deaf children.
--
April 5, 2008 at 7:08 pm
I’m here to educate and inform others about cochlear implants, AVT, and
my views. I’m not here to ask people to agree with me. If you don’t
--
“Factors Affecting the Development of Speech, Language, and Literacy
in Children With Early Cochlear Implantation”
Ann E. Geers, Central Institute for the Deaf, St. Louis, MO LANGUAGE,
--
and audition for communication were better able to use the information
provided by the implant to hear, speak and read. Use of sign
communication with implanted children did not promote auditory and
peech skill development and did not result in an advantage for overall
--
language. Oral education appears to be an important educational choice
for children who have received a cochlear implant before 5 years of
age.”
Language Skills of Children with Early Cochlear Implantation
Geers, Ann E.; Nicholas, Johanna G.; Sedey, Allison L.
Ear & Hearing. 24(1) Supplement:46S-58S, February 2003
Use of a cochlear implant has had a dramatic impact on the linguistic
competence of profoundly hearing-impaired children. More than half of
--
Use of Speech by Children From Total Communication Programs Who Wear
Cochlear Implants
Ann Geers 1, Brent Spehar, Allison Sedey 2
--
did children who used little or no speech. After 3 years with an
implant, speech users were more likely than children who used little or
no speech to be placed in mainstream educational programs.
--
in today’s mainstream society.”
Relationship Between Communication Mode and Implant Performance in
Pediatric CLARION Patients
--
Ph. D., Advanced Bionics Corporation, Sylmar, CA”
Paper presented at 1997 5th International Cochlear Implant Conference,
May 1-3, 1996, New York, NY.
--
audiological outcome measures was examined in pediatric patients who
received the CLARION cochlear implant. The results revealed that both
groups of children (children who used oral communication and children
--
Approach to communication, speech perception and intelligibility after
paediatric cochlear implantation
S.M. Archbold, T.P. Nikolopoulos, M. Tait, G.M. O’Donoghue, M.E. Lutman
--
The present study revealed that, on measures of speech perception and
intelligibility obtained three, four and five years after implantation,
children using oral communication outperformed those using signed
--
position to be in. To have one’s own self worth rendered valueless, and
the only redeeming feature is a future of implants…
April 5, 2008 at 9:55 pm
I work with deaf children including those who have been implanted. I
have seen some children who were successful with speech and listening
--
uccesses with their CIs and AVT:
This is why I created Cochlear Implant Online, to inform parents of
deaf children with CIs how to raise their children successfully so that
--
provided a story written by my mother about her raising my sister and
me (http://cochlearimplantonline.com/index2.php?story) to acknowledge
parents that it takes a lot of hard work and dedication to raise their
--
Can I just say summat. No one is, neither am I, saying that you should
not have had yr implant. Or that the way you were raised wasn’t a
uccess. It clearly was, and for you it worked.
--
more visual or more aural. Would be nice to have a balance. That is why
I like http://aslci.blogspot.com/ (the ASL-Cochlear Implant Community
blog.)
--
as my girls have. CI technology is continuing to improve with new
implants and processors about every 5 years, and the age of
implantation is continuing to drop. These kids do not need ASL. The
older ones still do not need or desire ASL. I get that you feel
--
ASL program. Why the English language is not completely accessible,
I’ll try to explain… Even with hearing aids, cochlear implants (I know
it’s improving so that it’s better now), or whatever assistive devices,
--
in as well.
The first step would be to contact your closest Cochlear Implant Center
for a candidacy evaluation to see if you qualify for a cochlear
implant. (This link will help you find the nearest clinic:
http://www.cochlearamericas.com/Support/38.asp). Without knowing your
--
to make the best decision for you!
Anecdotal evidence from CI users who received their implants as adults
tells me this:
--
2. You mentioned that you rely on lipreading and have problems in
background noise. A cochlear implant most likely will help with this.
Many adult CI recipients find that their CI aids in comprehension of
--
they find themselves relying on hearing rather than speechreading more
and more as their experience with the implant grows. Cochlear implants
also have specific programming options that allow you to “focus” the
--
with greater success. Many CI users can, but again, individual results
vary. How can you get the best use out of your cochlear implant? Get
the necessary follow-up! Frequent mappings, sessions with an AVT,
at-home computer programs for listening practice, wearing the implant
all waking hours, etc. all of these things will increase your enjoyment
and success with a cochlear implant.
4. The time it takes is very individual, based on various factors
--
5. Your speech would sound different to you, but just different, not
worse. In fact, because the cochlear implant provides improved access
to high frequency sounds HAs can miss (/s/, /f/, etc.), you might find
--
Please remember that my child has been aided( and now uses both a
hearing aid and cochlear implant) since a young age and received one on
one Auditory Verbal Therapy for 4 years. So, I will say that what you
--
what the various manufacturers’ plans are should be a factor in
choosing an implant brand if you do indeed decide to go that route. I
will say that the longer you wait, no matter how good the new
--
children ages 2 through 17. Thus, there simply aren’t that many
implanted as babies or toddlers who have hit the older grades yet.
Therefore, these AVT failures that you cite either weren’t in
legitimate AV programs or likely were not implanted as babies or
toddlers. Rachel was the first child in New England to get an implant,
and when we moved to Atlanta, she was the first child her AV center had
ever seen with an implant. Now, 85% – 90% of the children at the center
have CIs. As I said, things are changing.
--
Just as a hearing child absorbs spoken language from the beginning.
Deaf children when properly aided or using a cochlear implant begin to
absorb the same spoken language from the beginning. Of course 2 month
--
of sign language and speech production among children who have received
cochlear implants (Preisler, Tvingstedt and Ahlström, 2002).
Thus, there is no empirical evidence to support the concern that the
acquisition of ASL will inhibit English speech or literacy development
among children with cochlear implants.”
Also get this:
“The importance of acquiring a strong first language applies equally to
children who receive a cochlear implant. Current policy in Ontario
discourages children who receive cochlear implants from acquiring ASL
fluency in their early years. The assumption appears to be that
--
April 6, 2008 at 5:04 pm
Those children that I have worked with were implanted as babies and
were in AVT programs. They are now in the elementary school ages so
--
We believe it is the right of every child to use spoken communication.
If he is properly aided or uses a cochlear implant, why would I begin
by teaching him ASL? Why wouldn’t I choose to begin with English? We
--
who are not happy with the result, these people have been. However,
there experiences are not the same as someone implanted at a young age.
In my opinion, ANY parent preparing to have ANY surgery for their child
--
years, using hearing aids, which did not work at all for her, before we
could have her implanted. My daughter was provided with teachers from
the School for the Deaf from 6 months until three when the local school
ystem takes over. We chose to have total communication at the time. My
daughter was implanted shortly after and eventually, SHE showed less
interest in the sign we taught her than in the sounds she was hearing.
It wasn’t a perfect transition and if I had my choice I probably would
have had her implanted earlier. But we had communication at the time
and we still do. She is a happy child. She LOVES school. No one can
--
I’d do it either with them sitting on my lap looking at the book and
listening to me or with them by my side with their implanted ear next
to me as they both only initially had one ear implanted. I consider
this time spent with them to be a very important part of their auditory
--
Language and cognition does NOT begin the moment a child speaks, nor
does it begin the minute a child is implanted. It begins the minute the
mother speaks or signs to the baby… right after birth. While one waits
for implantation, and does not sign with the baby, one loses precious
time in the language and cognitive process with that child… one that
--
Your comment is very true. My sister, Jessica, has apraxia, a type of
peech disorder. When she was first implanted, she was not making any
progress in speech during the first few months as my parents expected.
--
I’ve read the research.
Didn’t wait for implantion. Found out about hearing loss. Properly
aided the day after learning about his hearing loss. So he didn’t lose
--
cool that he was able carry on a great conversation long distance with
a funny sounding aunt using his cochlear implant. I think he asked her
to repeat something once. Mind you that this was in our very loud
--
I however am concerned more about OTHER parents who have a false sense
of thinking that once they get their child implanted, their child will
just automatically pick up and be “normal”. There are too many kids
being implanted after five years old and with no intense AVT at all or
dedicated parental involvement. Many of these kids were already exposed
--
these two as two sepearate approach. The exception would be if a deaf
family decides to implant their child, then I can see where AVT and ASL
would be able to work.
--
I really appreciate Open Minded’s comment. I appreciate DBC’s efforts
and all the people behind Cochlear Implant Online.
In the end, it seems everyone’s efforts are all about being able to
--
emphasis that you are a ***successful*** AVT product, why not seize a
golden opportunity to be implanted to hear people speak, laugh, cry,
ing? “Two best worlds” is better than one world!
--
it but what does it have to do with AVT? There are still many parents
out there that have not implanted their child and are using the oral
method – I can see where you might want to advocate towards these
--
I agree that to expose ASL to babies is an excellent idea. But, parents
who decide to implant their child should stick to practices that have
been found to benefit C.I. to its fullest potential.
--
There’s no way a parent can go back to the providers and complain if
the implant didn’t work since they didn’t follow the recommended
practice.
--
process its basically a moot point.
The bigger question is whether AVT is the best method for CI implantees
and thats where I want to see an unbiased research document, because as
--
afety net. Too many children in USA experience the same lack of
exposure to ASL even when implanted and struggle with AVT therapy.
DBC has been formed to ensure that children are able to receive the
--
child may be a visual learner versus an auditory learner, or the age at
which the child was implanted, or learning disabilities compounded with
deafness, the list goes on.
--
Why don’t you ask your hearing friends to listen to Jessica, who was
implanted at age 15 months, at
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-Ae2VW6NMZE
--
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aNFnpZAtK9c
who was implanted at age 9 months,
or most of the kids at
--
Texas Southwestern Medical Center. Her research interests include the
developmental evaluation of deaf children after cochlear implantation.
Sounds like legitimate qualifications for doing research to me. If your
--
tem cell therapies, cellular mechanisms, aural rehabilitation, speech,
anatomy, hearing loss, tissue destruction, cochlear implants, clinical
epidemiology, hearing aids… and many others. Many of those focus on the
--
deprived. They are not linguistically delayed upon graduation from the
programs. They are functioning well with their implants in their
worlds. Maybe you should work on your bi-bi program. Develop it,
--
understood my point earlier. When I googled the names (in quotes), the
only information I could find was on cochlear implant studies, the ear,
hearing, otolaryngology, audiologic rehabilitation, and other stuff
--
note that she got her c.i. at the age of 2 years and 8 months, which is
considered late nowadays. The age of implantation does make a
ignificant difference. Please listen to the speech of her younger
ister Jessica who got implanted at the age of 15 months.
In the successful cases of aural/oral competency with kids implanted
less than two years old, even more with one year old or younger,
--
can learn to listen very shortly after birth. They can babble as
infants and, if implanted early, can develop the normal phonemes AT THE
SAME TIME as their hearing peers (and I’ve had a toddler with hundreds
--
Stories
Choose Cochlear Implant
Tags
Acceptance Accommodations Advanced Bionics Advocacy AGBell ASL Audiology AVT
Awareness Babies BHSM Children CI User Story Cochlear Implant Cochlear
Implant Convention Cochlear™ College Deaf Community EaR Books Encouragement
Events Facts Giveaway Contest Hearing Aids Language Life MED-EL Medical Care
--
FAQ
Cochlear Implant
Life
--
Facebook Twitter YouTube Flickr pinterest RSS
Cochlear Implant Online is not endorsed by Cochlear™, MED-EL, Advanced
Bionics, and AGBell. Articles and comments do not necessarily represent
the views of all three companies and AGBell. This website is created by
Rachel Chaikof, who is a Cochlear™ Nucleus® bilateral cochlear implant
recipient, to create awareness about cochlear implants and listening
and spoken language.
