Feed I look so I can hear.... » Cochlear implants Comments Feed
alternate alternate I look so I can hear.... WordPress.com
--
__________________________________________________________________
Cochlear implants
NEWSFLASH: A new site is available at www.cochlearimplantHELP.com with
everything you ever wanted to know about cochlear implants!
MY HEARING JOURNEY – My personal learning curve, jumping from hearing
aids to cochlear implants
I discovered during my cochlear implant journey that the medic team
don’t give you a lot of information, just some general ballpark
end-user results and info on the implantation process. Once I started
digging, I discovered a whole lot of stuff which enabled me to make an
--
life, I want it to be as effective as possible. Hopefully, the
information here will help those considering a cochlear implant to make
an informed decision too.
It’s important to remember that a cochlear implant will not give you
normal hearing. However, it will give you better hearing than with
--
process. Some will do well within a few months; others, particularly
those born deaf, can take much longer. Many cochlear implant users
report ongoing improvements for years after activation.
--
CHOOSING A BRAND – what you need to know
Having a cochlear implant implanted isn’t Plug ‘n Play. It’s like a
computer – Garbage In, Garbage Out. You will need to work with the
cochlear implant to help it along, and retrain your brain to recognise
the new sounds. So, as well as keeping your expectations low, you need
to do some rehabilitation work to get the most out of your implant.
REHABILITATION – resources to help you get the most out of your
cochlear implant
WHAT IT SOUNDS LIKE THROUGH A COCHLEAR IMPLANT
Be aware that if you listen to these links through your hearing aids,
you will be listening to sounds processed twice, once through your
hearing aid, and again through a cochlear implant simulation. So OF
COURSE it’s going to sound screwy. I’d suggest asking a hearing friend
--
TINNITUS
Sometimes this goes away with a cochlear implant, sometimes it doesn’t.
Roll the dice and see …
COCHLEAR IMPLANT OPERATION
This is a very informative video as the surgeon comments on the surgery
and cochlear implants throughout. Well worth a watch in my opinion as
it you get the explanation along with it. (After the jump, click on
--
queamish!
Video of a cochlear implant operation
Tips on managing the hospital stay and operation.
Should you have a meningitis vaccine? Read about Kathleen.
COST OF COCHLEAR IMPLANTS
SOECIC 2010 charges document – Southampton UK
Healthcare Blue Book – USA
Global Cochlear Implant – obtain cheaper implants abroad
THE FUTURE FOR COCHLEAR IMPLANTS
Cochlear implants : Where we are and where we’re going – a Powerpoint
lideshow by Amber M. Gardner, Ph.D., CCC-A University of Virginia
Health System, which offers a fascinating look at the progress of
cochlear implants with photos that will make your hair stand on end!
There were some very brave pioneers and we are eternally grateful to
them.
Cochlear implant hybrids (2006)
Totally implantable cochlear implants for middle ear deafness. A paper
was presented, The development of a tympanic membrane sensor for a
totally implantable cochlear implant or hearing aid, (1997) but as yet,
nothing has been developed from this. However, see this article by
--
explanation of their system at Mimicking the ear.
Considerations for design of future cochlear implant electrode arrays
(2008)
The Neurelec Digisonic SP binaural cochlear implant moves away from
bilateral implantation and allows the wearer to hear in stereo with one
processor and two microphones. UK news item (2010).
NICE guidance TA166: Cochlear implants for severe to profound deafness
in children and adults (Updated 2011)
USEFUL LINKS
Hearing Journey – the largest Cochlear Implant forum : the best place
to meet cochlear implant users and ask for friendly advice. All brands
are welcome however more technical advice can only be given for
Advanced Bionics.
Bionic Ear Association – Join the cochlear implant community, connect
to a mentor, use online rehabilitation tools
--
Cochlear – Nucleus CI community & Advocacy Programme
British CI Group – Find your local cochlear implant centre in the UK
National CI Users Association – Find your local cochlear implant
upport group and information on cochlear implants
UK Cochlear Implant Users Group on Yahoo
Case studies – read about cochlear implant user experiences
CI Theory – Optimize cochlear implant performance, downloads
NHS – Annual Evidence Update on Hearing Disorders
NICE – Cochlear implant guidance
Deafness Research UK – Cochlear Implant Research
Interview with Professor Graeme Clark
Comparison of bimodal and bilateral cochlear implant users on speech
recognition
FAQ – Air travel with a cochlear implant
Love playing sports, or working in construction? Here’s my article on
helmets for cochlear implant users, which is continually updated with
new resources.
Photographs of inner ear anatomy and cochlear implantation (Source: UT
Southwestern)
If you’re technically-minded and want a deeper look at cochlear
implants, check out this book: Programming Cochlear Implants
MAUDE (Manufacturer and User Facility Device Experience) – FDA database
of reported cochlear implant problems. Open the Product Class drop-down
list, and choose ‘Implant, Cochlear.’ Choose the results per page at
the bottom and date range. You will be able to see how many problems
--
Hi Tina,
Holy smokes, you have done a lot of research on implants! I’m an
engineer, and didn’t have nearly the amount of information you
have available to you when I received my first implant.
You will find a lot of personal stories on Hearing Journey, and
--
hi,
i had a CI meeting and i was interested in having the implant
but did not like the idea of having an big hearing over my ear
--
Bryan (19:06:25) :
they do have an invisible Cochlear Implant that implants inside
your head Nicky with batteries and no outside parts, But its
uper expensive!! like $30,000 dollars! :-O its called the
“Esteem Hearing Implant” & you have to have the batteries
changed surgically every 10 years.
--
Bryan (14:52:21) :
actually regular cochlear implants cost more between 50,000 and
up so yeah.. I just had to do a little research so not bad for
the invisible Esteem Hearing implant by Envoy. I contacted them
and they send me a nice free info package by mail with a DVD
--
amantha (12:51:02) :
can you wear cochlear implant with wet hair
Tina (17:34:37) :
--
quite this breadth of information at my fingertipse when I was
first implanted. You are quite a remarkable researcher !
Dr.V. (See you on HJ)
--
Dan Schwartz (03:08:37) :
Michelle, I’m not sure if your son has received his implant yet;
but the warranties on the implanted electronics (at least here
in the US) is 3 years for Cochlear, five years for MedEl, and 10
--
SteveHammond (19:34:06) :
The internal implant is 10 years warranty with all 3 companies.
How you get your numbers Dan ?
--
doing the right thing right now– you’re doing your research. I
encourage you to personally meet cochlear implant users and ask
them about what they like about their brand.
I am a Cochlear user and I’ve been with them since I was 9 years
old, so that’s 18 years now. I got my second implant 2 years
ago. They are the oldest company and I can say the quality is
--
because these therapists will help your son learn to use what
hearing he has and using the most of his cochlear implant to
improve his speech and listening skills.
--
There’s just no way anyone can hear the way a person with a
cochlear implant can. In fact, that’s why we have mapping. Every
cochlear implant user hears differently from another one. I can
hear all the original sentences with clarity with my Nucleus 22
--
in my map.
Don’t be afraid. This cochlear implant technology is the
greatest gift you will ever give your child. I promise you.
--
I will be writing a blog post on water resistance of cochlear
implants as there is a lot of confusion on this issue. If a
Cochlear CI-user damages their CI through water, they will void
--
@Funnyoldlife regarding water resistance of Cochlear’s cochlear
implants, there is a difference between a water resistant device
and a waterproof device. You can’t go swimming or take a shower
--
device and the Nucleus 24 device which is the first
water-resistant cochlear implant. My Nucleus 22 would degrade in
ound quality much more quickly so I had to send it in for
--
John
implanty zębów (01:28:20) :
Super text, I will add this blog to my favorites.
--
Hi All,
I am planning cochlear implant for my sister. She has sever to
profound hearing loss. Her age is 20. She has an excelent IQ.
--
Hi Richa
Are you looking at a hearing aid or a cochlear implant?
If you want a cochlear implant, there are 4 brands. You can read
the research I have done on my page about the brands at Choosing
a Brand. Alternatively, you can check out Sounding Board or
peak to a cochlear implant BEA mentor at Connect to Mentor (UK)
or Connect to Mentor (USA).
--
Can some one guide about best practices in speech therapy for a
cochealer implant patient?
and can some one suggest how much improvement can we expect in
--
Hi Richa,
Congratulations on your sister’s new implant!
This is a very exciting time… and also a very scary time because
there are so many unknowns. I’ll share my story. I was born with
a profound hearing loss and was implanted at age 9, and I’ve
been using the implant for 18 years, and recently got a second
one on my other ear. It has been the greatest gift in life.
--
would recommend for your sister, so that she can make the most
use of her cochlear implant.
Can you provide a little more background regarding your sister’s
--
accepted in the deaf community (here is a fantastic blog
charting the jump from hearing aids to cochlear implants).
Several deaf people I know recently […]
--
Angela (05:52:16) :
I have nucleus 5 I had implant from april 7,2010 and had for a
year now and I am loving it everybit up til June 2011 got
--
my son is 12 year old i am from pakistan and he is dam and daf
and i need echo plant sergeory cochlear implant plz gide me and
hallp me
--
for him, once he his a resident of the UK you should bring him
to the Manchester Cochlear Implantation Center, there you will
find a possible solution to his problem..
--
You might also want to check out the new website
http://www.cochlearimplanthelp.com and the shopping guide for
cochlear implants there.
20 09 2012
--
Glasses (19:07:30) :
[…] 16.Cochlear implants « I look so I can hear…. This is a very
informative video as the surgeon comments on the surgery and
cochlear implants throughout. Well worth a watch in my opinion
as it you get the …
https://funnyoldlife.wordpress.com/cochlear-implants/ […]
11 11 2012
--
I have asked friends who were hearing then went deaf and got a
cochlear implant (or two). They say the sound is mostly the
ame. There are a few musical notes which are not quite the same
--
likely not to have done as much rehabilitation as those who say
the sound is the same. The capability of the cochlear implant to
give a very good replication of sound is possible with today’s
technology – I would recommend looking at the Shopping Guide and
comparing the ability of each implant to process sound. Your
brain will do the rest.
--
part (16:08:03) :
If one person receives cochlear implant , how much distance a
person can hear the sound effectively
--
I have been research is there any massages therapy for cochlear
implant ? I have it since I was 6 now I’m soon 30s.
Hope hear u soon.
--
I just wondering if anyone had massage at head area where
cochlear implant at. Or any information for massage therapy
chools that study about cochlear pains or sores try to erased
--
massage. More people use cochlear they need more massage therapy
for that. Have u ever touch Ur head where cochlear implant at u
feel different it something.
--
Congratulations on starting your CI journey. Please make sure
you check the latest, and unbiased, cochlear implant comparison
chart at http://cochlearimplanthelp.com/
I would be interested to know how you made your choice. A lot of
--
I´m on my way and doing my due dilligence^^, my head is feeling
like a steam engine. the cochlearimplanthelp.com site is giving
me alot of information, but of course a lot of questions too.
In my understanding so far it is basically important, that the
part wich are implanted are the best, cause you can´t change
without another surgery. All outer head parts could be changed
--
tay inside your head for a very, very long time. Your software
and processor can easily be upgraded, but the implanted hardware
is only replaced when it fails or you have an explantation for
--
The most up-to-date and comprehensive comparison chart for the
major cochlear implant brands is at
http://cochlearimplanthelp.com/cochlear-implant-comparison-chart
/
THere is a good explanation of electrodes and channels at
http://cochlearimplanthelp.com/journey/choosing-a-cochlear-impla
nt/electrodes-and-channels/ You are correct in saying that
--
him.
He’s had his first implant for 12 years, is now sitting in front
of the TV with only his new implant processor on (newly
implanted ear), watching with GOOD closed captioning. He says he
hears patterns right now, softly. When both are on he hears kind
--
Julie Ladeira (16:28:16) :
Does anybody have experience with hybrid cochlear implants?
26 09 2013
--
hearing and had the ability to listen to wonderful music. I’m
also 59. So, an implant that lasts 20 years is likely beyond my
lifespan based on family history.
--
Amit Soni (10:32:36) :
I am planning MED-EL opus 2 bilateral cochlear implant for my
2.6 yrs old daughter. She loves water activity more than
anything, so in future, I will have to go with Waterproof
upgradation. Is MED-EL planning for waterproof implant in
future? or I shall go with Advance Bionics which already has
--
finalized which is 10th Oct. and I will have to finalize the
implant before 3rd Oct.
4 10 2013
Umair (11:50:11) :
My dad will have his first implant on 14th of October. I did lot
of research on the different devices available and which should
--
recognition. I checked comparison charts many times, I read all
the reviews. All messages, all videos on different implants were
checked. From the charts it looked like Med-El has better
--
go with Advanced Bionics new processor Naida ClQ70 with
mid-scala implant. To order the implant I met with my dads
audiologist. She’s helping patients and programming these
--
mainstreamed in 10th grade now, with no FM system, only using
his cochlear implants.
With the implant company now under the hearing aide company, the
bluetooth integration is wonderful, too.
--
the retraining of the auditory sections in the brain after the
implant as this type of retraining therapy does have quite a
good success rate with tinnitus sufferers.
--
Has anyone heard of repeated failures of Cochlear’s CI512? I
went through the fiasco of explant and reimplant in August of
2011 due to intermittent failures of a 3-month old implant. I
was reimplanted with another CI512 two weeks prior to Cochlear’s
recall (and before root cause of the failure had been
--
Thanks for this blog.. I appreciate the insight you’ve provided
for someone who is deciding on a cochlear implant… I am
bilaterally implanted myself with the Medel. I’ve been using
their new Opus2 processor on one ear (I can’t wear bilateral at
--
Terri (03:41:16) :
I am trying to figure out how my father will do with an implant,
and learning to hear all over again, for he has dementia and is
--
http://t.co/74rLuZct1j 6 months ago
cochlearimplantHELP
An comprehensive, unbiased examination of the cochlear implant journey,
for users and would-be recipients. cochlearimplantHELP
[127469310608676.1388.1000192506.png]
--
telephony captions cinema ClearVoice cochlear Cochlear Americas
Cochlear implant Communication Deaf deaf awareness deafness disability
discrimination DLA drink education electrodes film fire food Freedom
