Go Back   AllDeaf.com > Deaf Interests > Hearing Aids & Cochlear
Implants
Reload this Page Considering implant for your child
LIKE AllDeaf on Facebook FOLLOW AllDeaf on Twitter
--
Only pointing out for Nic that you are nothing but a hearie who lost
it, then got implanted.
You are not Deaf and know nothing about it.
--
I don't think HOH=ME ever claimed to be anything other than someone
that had hearing, lost it, and then was implanted. He then goes on to
ay that he is grateful for the ability to hear again and recommends it
--
His post was insulting,and condescending, dripping deep in audism...he
also says so what regarding implanting our babies, essentially he
trolled the thread...he offered no valube imput on the issue, he
--
Referring to deaf babies as "ours." Other people's deaf babies aren't
"yours" and you don't get to have a say in whether they get implanted
or not; their parents do. It's a bit creepy when you imply that you
know what's best for other people's deaf kids just because you also
can't hear. You don't like it when babies get cochlear implants - we
get that. But yeah, so what? Parents get to choose the culture their
--
glasses or would you wear them if your sight required it????
No, this forum is Hearing Aids and Cochlear Implants .
HOH-ME is offline   Reply With Quote
--
One mother in a parent of deaf and hoh children FB group claim that it
is because of her son's 2nd implant, he is in advanced math.
Ok if people are implanting babies which is their business BUT that
view that this mother holds will be rampant in which will leave those
deaf who don't have implants with a stigma as if they aren't as smart,
functioning, or as valued as those who have implants.
These audist views that does nobody any good and I see examples of
--
I was referring to the entire forum. It is divided into sections one of
which is Hearing Aids and Cochlear Implants. I do feel that these
comments you have made here are in the right section.
--
Isn't the name of this forum "ALLDEAF.Com"?
Thus "presumably" the DEAF who use a Cochlear Implant can be part and
not be considered- "trolling?
Get Real:Implanted Sunnybrook/Toronto -Advanced Bionics-Harmony
activated Aug/07
--
minoority. Be insulted all you want..meh
and you don't get to have a say in whether they get implanted or not;
their parents do.r.
--
Thats not the reason at all....what is very creepy, is the religious
devotion you share in frothing at the mouth visions of implantng our
babies....yeah this assimilation is creepy...
You don't like it when babies get cochlear implants - we get that. But
yeah, so what? r.
--
their babies isn't any of my business and isn't any of yours, either.
what is happining, the implants the assimilation, the attacks on my
people and culture, our language..is My bussiness.
--
Poo on that.
I saw someone wondering about people who implanted early. I have an
ancedotal case for that. I'm a massage therapist, when I was going to
--
it exactly for what it is..."oralisms final solution"....we do not see
it at all in the best interests for our babies implanted against there
will..it certainly IS very much in the interests and profit of the ci
--
article was balanced....but i know to others it msy seem a bit
extreme...its certainly not more.extreme then the push to implant...if
anything the stand not to early implant is a more moderate stand then
the rush to implant.
Good to see....
--
Forum Jump
[    Hearing Aids & Cochlear Implants___] Go
All times are GMT -5. The time now is 01:18 PM.
