Implant Blog - RSS

Katie-Louise's Cochlear Implant Blog
A Positive Journey with an Advanced Bionics Cochlear Implant!
Tuesday, 29 April 2014
Advanced Bionics Family Fun Day
Are you considering in getting a cochlear implant? Not sure which brand
to go for? Why not spend a day at Sherwood centre parc, Nottingham to
--
http://www.advancedbionics.com/
Are you deaf....Considering a Cochlear implant? Needs some
Advice/Support....Connect to a mentor here:
--
Can you believe it 3 years ago I went under the knife to get this
amazing cochlear implant. I was so nervous and I almost changed my
mind. I am so glad I went ahead with it. There nothing to be afraid of
--
of friends especially world wide after creating this blog and I have
met up with a lot of people who are now waiting to get an implant or
has just had them. There journey seems to be going so well just like
--
topped blogging. So as from now, I will do my best to keep posting to
increase the awareness of what a Cochlear Implant is and also to share
my personal experience with wearing a Advanced Bionics Device!
--
Saturday, 2 October 2010
2010 Top Cochlear Implant Award!
I would like to say a big thanks to those that has nominated me for the
Top 15 Cochlear Implant Blog award. Doing this blog has inspired a lot
of candidate, cochlear implant users.
A BIG thank you to Nottingham Cochlear Implant team, Advanced Bionics,
friends and family for supporting me through this an amazing journey.
--
'Medical Assistant School'
Top Cochlear Implants Blog
Thank you all for nominating me and for reading this blog.
--
3 months ago
Sound of Cochlear Implant
7 months ago
--
1 year ago
Anna's Sound Journey by Freedom Cochlear Implant
2nd day with N6 - in London
--
ourselves out there and WRITE.....
Sarah's Cochlear Implant
Trialling a Neptune
--
Phone and Music with CI nearly 2years on
Kirsty's Cochlear Implant
NOT HEARING VERY WELL
--
July 2010
Amanda's Cochlear Implant Journey
Amanda update-March 10, 2010
Kate's Cochlear Implant
My final post? 7 months on
--
Today's Appointment
The journey of Claire's cochlear implant
3-monthly tune up
--
Blog:
Katie's Cochlear Implant Journey
Topics:
--
html hit counter
Advice/Support From Experience Cochlear Implant users
Click the logo to find out more!
I was implanted in April '08. I have written about my experiences from
times to implantation to the present day. This would be a useful
resource for anybody who has been recently implanted or is going
through the assessements. I suggest you to look back at the blogpost in
--
Me and My Idol (Gareth Gates)
Useful Cochlear Implants websites
Me and the squad in Germany
