Implant Blog - RSS

Katie-Louise's Cochlear Implant Blog
A Positive Journey with an Advanced Bionics Cochlear Implant!
Friday, 1 October 2010
--
doing some more camp work!
and finally - progress on my COCHLEAR IMPLANT.
As you all know I had a postive experince so far with my cochlear
implant having new CI moment hearing new things all the time. Advanced
Bionics has become part of me and it is something that made my life
much more easier. My confident has grown with communicating with other
and of course before the implant I refused to use my voice and now I am
forever talking; that's what my friends and family says. ha ha.
Now I have had my cochlear implant for just over two year now which has
gone ever so quick! I have still got a lot of things that I need to
--
mentor so If you would like to ask any question about my cochlear
implant journey feel free to post me a message on this link and I'll
get back to you as soon as I can.
--
BEA UK - Get Connected with a Mentor
Bionic Ear Association UK - Get connected to a cochlear implant
community
--
by providing valuable information, education, awareness, and guidance
on cochlear implants. Staffed with a committed team of audiologists and
cochlear implant recipients, the BEA offers important support services
to help you hear your best.
The United Kingdom Bionic Ear Association (BEA/UK) offers you a
community of cochlear implant recipients, families, volunteers and
taff, all from the UK, who can support you throughout your hearing
journey.
Connecting with other cochlear implant recipients and families is an
important part of the hearing journey. Through BEA UK you can connect
with other cochlear implant recipients or parents, who can assist you
in navigating the process of choosing and living with cochlear
implants.
Read our recipient stories, find a mentor, check out our online
--
Advanced Bionics UK Chat-Room/Facebook!
Are you a candidate and is going through your Cochlear Implant
assessment but has all these question that you would like to ask and
--
off on you during the day?
My cochlear implant battery has never ever died on me through the day,
every morning I put on a fully charged battery and it would normally
last me a whole day (roughly12 hrs) and if I stay up later, I don't
normally replace it and just leave the implant on my head while the
battery flat.
Today, for the first time since I have had my Cochlear Implant, the
battery power actually went dead on me while at university. I
--
that I do lip-read a lot. I did had to warn my friends that my cochlear
implant has stopped working that they would need to tap me for my
attention rather than calling my name out. Thanks to my lip-reading
--
processor that afternoon actually reminded me what it used to be like
before my cochlear implant and how hard I had to concentrate. From now
on.... I must check the led light before putting my processor on. I
hate being without my cochlear implant now, it really does mean a lot
to me and when I have it on I really do relaxs more.
--
they will finally say 'YES' to let us adults go "BILATERAL." I really
do want a 2nd cochlear implant and I hope to get it before I completed
my degree so I could go straight into teaching without havin' to worry
--
3 months ago
Sound of Cochlear Implant
7 months ago
--
1 year ago
Anna's Sound Journey by Freedom Cochlear Implant
2nd day with N6 - in London
--
ourselves out there and WRITE.....
Sarah's Cochlear Implant
Trialling a Neptune
--
Phone and Music with CI nearly 2years on
Kirsty's Cochlear Implant
NOT HEARING VERY WELL
--
July 2010
Amanda's Cochlear Implant Journey
Amanda update-March 10, 2010
Kate's Cochlear Implant
My final post? 7 months on
--
Today's Appointment
The journey of Claire's cochlear implant
3-monthly tune up
--
Blog:
Katie's Cochlear Implant Journey
Topics:
--
html hit counter
Advice/Support From Experience Cochlear Implant users
Click the logo to find out more!
I was implanted in April '08. I have written about my experiences from
times to implantation to the present day. This would be a useful
resource for anybody who has been recently implanted or is going
through the assessements. I suggest you to look back at the blogpost in
--
Top 15 Blog Award
Top Cochlear Implants Blog
A New Year 2009 Counter To See Where My Visitors are From?
--
Me and My Idol (Gareth Gates)
Useful Cochlear Implants websites
Me and the squad in Germany
