Implant Blog - RSS

Katie-Louise's Cochlear Implant Blog
A Positive Journey with an Advanced Bionics Cochlear Implant!
Friday, 11 December 2009
2nd Xmas with my Cochlear Implant
14 days till Xmas and still I haven't finished all my Xmas shopping.
--
So, what have I been upto over the past few weeks? well, I have had a
few trip to Ropewalk Cochlear Implant centre; I had a slight problem
with my cochlear implant - struggling to control the sounds and feeling
uncomfortable in loud and quiet situation. Somehow when I'm in lecture
--
and is not seems to be having an problems at all - no more trips to the
Implant Centre till my 2year appointment, I hope.
Recently I went to the Ear Foundation Xmas Social and for the 2nd time
--
Thursday, 3 December 2009
Styling Your Cochlear Implant (Getting Ready for Xmas)
Hey all,
--
thought they look so cute then as I looked at them I came up with an
idea - lets pimp out my processor into an christmassy Cochlear Implant.
I knew I had a party to go to this weekend, so I thought, why not I'll
--
I just like to say sorry to thoses that has sent me an e-mail with your
question about the cochlear implants in the past month or so and hasn't
yet had a reply from me. I've been ever so busy at university working
--
Anyway, thought I'd share this with you - I wouldn't say its a good
thing, but everyone who has had a cochlear implant has bound to had
omething stuck on their coil by accident or someone would put it on,
--
Wearing a 'Huggie' with my C.I has made a big different to me. Even
though I had a smaller T-mic, the implant would still fly off. So,
wearing a 'Huggie' with your implant to wrap round your ears should
help you
--
headband. I place the band over my head by but putting the coil wire
underneath. That also stops the implant from falling off and of course
the coil doesn't come off as much as it used to. Placing the handband
--
ears. I found that big material head bands tend to make a lot of
rustling noise and it still made the implant falls off.
I wear the band in all the sports I play all sort of sports such as
--
(pictured below) This can be another way to prevent your cochlear
implant from falling off.
Sometimes while playing sports, you don't always hear the whistle even
if your wearing your implant, as you too busy focusing on the game.
There has been times where I was playing football and I had the ball,
--
My mum has found this , great to know that they are looking to get an
actor with a Cochlear Implant!
BBC searches for CI recipient to play lead role in new drama
--
professional actors in Dublin.
In the drama, the character has a cochlear implant and is learning to
talk, so the girl should ideally have some speech.
--
Not only I have been working. Advanced Bionics/Manchester cochlear
implant centre have asked me to join the football teens day that they
had in manchester. Good time, it was great to meet the young teenagers
--
It was nice to relax on the beach and enjoy the sunshine - the night
entertainment was great too. Thanks to my implant, I am able to
understand it more than I used to. I did have an accident with my
implant - lost 2 batteries which fall out of Richard bag which had a
hole in. Another call to the implant centre, grr.
There was one night were the was a party in the dark, so we all had
--
3 months ago
Sound of Cochlear Implant
7 months ago
--
1 year ago
Anna's Sound Journey by Freedom Cochlear Implant
2nd day with N6 - in London
--
ourselves out there and WRITE.....
Sarah's Cochlear Implant
Trialling a Neptune
--
Phone and Music with CI nearly 2years on
Kirsty's Cochlear Implant
NOT HEARING VERY WELL
--
July 2010
Amanda's Cochlear Implant Journey
Amanda update-March 10, 2010
Kate's Cochlear Implant
My final post? 7 months on
--
Today's Appointment
The journey of Claire's cochlear implant
3-monthly tune up
--
Blog:
Katie's Cochlear Implant Journey
Topics:
--
html hit counter
Advice/Support From Experience Cochlear Implant users
Click the logo to find out more!
I was implanted in April '08. I have written about my experiences from
times to implantation to the present day. This would be a useful
resource for anybody who has been recently implanted or is going
through the assessements. I suggest you to look back at the blogpost in
--
Top 15 Blog Award
Top Cochlear Implants Blog
A New Year 2009 Counter To See Where My Visitors are From?
--
Me and My Idol (Gareth Gates)
Useful Cochlear Implants websites
Me and the squad in Germany
