Implant Blog - RSS

Katie-Louise's Cochlear Implant Blog
A Positive Journey with an Advanced Bionics Cochlear Implant!
Thursday, 23 July 2009
--
following the ball and If you lost where the ball is, then you have
just missed out on some information. Before I got implanted with this
wonderful Advanced Bionic device, it was so hard to keep up . when I
--
to repeat.
After having a cochlear implant, lip-reading has become alot easisr! I
don't get tired so quick and I do get more involved. There are times
--
in the middle - I always hear and keep up with the people on my
implanted side and tend to miss some information on my non-implant
ide. I do try and make sure I sit on the edge, making sure all my
friends are on my implant side. It does help, but still not all places
have "C" shapes seating. They can be round and that makes it worst when
there is no edges to make sure everyone sits where your implanted side
is.
Maybe a 2nd implant would help in that situation? Has anyone out there
notices the different in group situation after getting your 2nd CI
--
thought If I ever did do the show - it would be good to tell people
what a cochlear implant is. It could make Advanced Bionic more visable
and maybe more people would be aware on a cochlear implant is.
Another question my dad ask me. If I ever won 10,000 pound, what would
I spend it on? I said I would pay to have a second cochlear implant
done and my dad was just shocked and couldn't believe I would choose to
have that done instead of something esle like a new car or something.
Having a second implant would mean alot to me. Waiting till the N.I.C.E
report change in 2011 is a long time to wait and it could take forever
--
Looking for advice and support to help you with decision to get a
cochlear implant or not? How about checking these useful sites;
Advanced Bionic (the name of my cochlear implant)
Contact Network
Ear Foundation
Cochlear Implant User Group
British Cochlear
--
I have met during my assessment at the Ear foudation to help me decide
wheather I wanted a cochlear implant or not. Oh and there was Elaine
from CIUG who I have spoken to loads of time asking her tons of
question about the implant. I didn't realise they would be there
When I got to the Mellor Centre, I signed in and went to my bedroom and
--
got a drink, I spotted my great old audiologist that did my assessment
to get a cochlear implant and who has left me for her new job just
before my switch on, but hey at least shes working for the 'RIGHT'
--
thanks tiz for the hint :-P They all know how crazy I am with the
colours on my implant and what I did to one of the cover (yes, spraying
it pink) Thats me and I love to stay in fashion, not just with clothes,
but with my implant too.
The next morning, I was ment to go for a run, but after seening the
--
learnt so much, and still I can't believe how much I didn't know even
though I had the cochlear implant for a year and there is still so much
more to learn. I was actually impressed with the future equipments for
--
lip-read, so I could keep up with what the others were talking about
while my implant were off. After having the ear mould made, I also made
a bouncing ball with the left overs lol. I actually gave that to
--
quickly, some take a while. But for me, I am still not 100% confident
and yes, it has only been a year since I've been implanted.
It could take some users months or even years till they could get
--
history of deafness, or sound menmory! Just because you know someone
who had the implant around the same time as you, or maybe a few months
later and can use the phone quite well, it doesn't mean they are better
--
I once tried calling my granddad at Christmas for the first time and at
the time I have only had my implant for six months.. I didn't actually
hear him very well or understood him perfectly. My mum stood next to
--
The event went so well, the weather was so nice and it was great to
meet even more people with Cochlear Implant! It is nice to see more and
more implant users around my age and to share each of our experience!
So, I would like to say a BIG thanks to Sue and the Ear foundation crew
--
forward to attend more of your events. If you need any advise or any
upport with anything to do with Cochlear Implant I would recommend you
all to check out there site on www.earfoundation.org
--
Well, exam's are finally over! This year was the first time I ever done
an exam with my implant. Every year, the lecture always tell everyone
to sit quietly at their desk, no talking and to fill in all the
--
me! How embarrasing
This year has been totoally different! Thanks to my implant, I was able
to hear myself and was able to BE quiet. In the exam room, everything
--
hoot it! It was sooooooo ANNOYING! Eventually I did had to take my
implant so I could get some peace and concentrate! Can anyone guess
what it is?
--
3 months ago
Sound of Cochlear Implant
7 months ago
--
1 year ago
Anna's Sound Journey by Freedom Cochlear Implant
2nd day with N6 - in London
--
ourselves out there and WRITE.....
Sarah's Cochlear Implant
Trialling a Neptune
--
Phone and Music with CI nearly 2years on
Kirsty's Cochlear Implant
NOT HEARING VERY WELL
--
July 2010
Amanda's Cochlear Implant Journey
Amanda update-March 10, 2010
Kate's Cochlear Implant
My final post? 7 months on
--
Today's Appointment
The journey of Claire's cochlear implant
3-monthly tune up
--
Blog:
Katie's Cochlear Implant Journey
Topics:
--
html hit counter
Advice/Support From Experience Cochlear Implant users
Click the logo to find out more!
I was implanted in April '08. I have written about my experiences from
times to implantation to the present day. This would be a useful
resource for anybody who has been recently implanted or is going
through the assessements. I suggest you to look back at the blogpost in
--
Top 15 Blog Award
Top Cochlear Implants Blog
A New Year 2009 Counter To See Where My Visitors are From?
--
Me and My Idol (Gareth Gates)
Useful Cochlear Implants websites
Me and the squad in Germany
