Implant Blog - RSS

Katie-Louise's Cochlear Implant Blog
A Positive Journey with an Advanced Bionics Cochlear Implant!
Monday, 11 May 2009
--
Kirsty, a friend who lives about 45 minutes away had has her cochlear
implant for nearly 6 months now.
She was born deaf and had wore hearing aids until April 2007 when she
--
After Kirsty contacted me online, she had ask me loads of quesiton
about my experince and how the implant has helped me. We met once
before her op and I could see how hard it is for her. Kirsty, then
decided to go for an Advanced Bionic cochlear implant in Novemenber
2008 and after visiting her on the day she had the op, she was so brave
--
thing there should be a music video out there that should increase
cochlear implant awareness, there are still lot of people out there
that doesn't know what a cochlear implant is.
that is it for me, watch out for next weeks post with the BIG 1 year
--
Wednesday, 25 March 2009
2nd implant?
10 months and I am doing so well, I still can't get over of what I have
--
thinking about in the last few weeks, now that I have done so well
listening through one implant, will I do the same if I had a second
implant?
A second implant would be nice. I mean, I hear so well in my left but
the only thing is I can only hear most of the things on the left and my
--
blank; I don't see the point in wearing a hearing aid I know a 2nd
implant won't make you hear any better, but it be nice to hear from
both direction and maybe it give me a better sense of where sounds
comin from.
So, now I am hoping to have a 2nd implant to become 'Bilateral' becuase
of the N.I.C.E guidance, I think here in the UK, it would be hard for
--
now?
I thought, If I was to have a 2nd implant while I am still at early
tages, I think it might be better as my brains will continue to learn
, I am not saying it will stop (I hope not) but getting another implant
at this stage might be easier for me and gives me time to learn before
--
event which was organised by Ear Foundation and Advanced Bionic. (the
implant brand I have)
The event went so well, and it was concert by musicians who have
--
I weren't too keen on the flute. I mean, the flute was played at a high
pitch and each note gets higher and higer which felt like my implant is
about to blew off.
--
March already? Its nowbeen nearly 10 months since I have been
implanted. I can't believe how quick the year has gone; I guess life
would be alot faster if your enjoying the new hearing journey.
--
from a good distance away. Babies are loud when they cry. Sometimes it
is nice to switch your implant off when you don't want to hear him.
I remenber 3 month post activation, I was able to turn round if someone
--
3 months ago
Sound of Cochlear Implant
7 months ago
--
1 year ago
Anna's Sound Journey by Freedom Cochlear Implant
2nd day with N6 - in London
--
ourselves out there and WRITE.....
Sarah's Cochlear Implant
Trialling a Neptune
--
Phone and Music with CI nearly 2years on
Kirsty's Cochlear Implant
NOT HEARING VERY WELL
--
July 2010
Amanda's Cochlear Implant Journey
Amanda update-March 10, 2010
Kate's Cochlear Implant
My final post? 7 months on
--
Today's Appointment
The journey of Claire's cochlear implant
3-monthly tune up
--
Blog:
Katie's Cochlear Implant Journey
Topics:
--
html hit counter
Advice/Support From Experience Cochlear Implant users
Click the logo to find out more!
I was implanted in April '08. I have written about my experiences from
times to implantation to the present day. This would be a useful
resource for anybody who has been recently implanted or is going
through the assessements. I suggest you to look back at the blogpost in
--
Top 15 Blog Award
Top Cochlear Implants Blog
A New Year 2009 Counter To See Where My Visitors are From?
--
Me and My Idol (Gareth Gates)
Useful Cochlear Implants websites
Me and the squad in Germany
