blog-worthy is that I am now able to hear and understand on it A LOT
better by using my Cochlear Implant!! Before, I've had to use my
Hearing Aid and it would always be a hassel because I would have to be
--
The jobs I never thought I'd have... are the jobs I'm doing!
Before I got my implant, there were some jobs I thought I would NEVER
be able to have and I thought I was going to miss out on the jobs that
--
But since I’ve started college and become more comfortable with my
implant/hearing… I’m working one of the jobs I thought I would NEVER
have which is working the front desk as a receptionist.
--
I’m able to do this and it makes me that much more grateful for the
opportunities I’m now experiencing because of my Cochlear Implant and
having gone through Auditory Verbal Therapy. Without them… I don’t know
--
Body-Worn Processor can come in handy
My Grandpa has had the implant for about 2 years now and seems to be
progressing. But unfortunately, because of his age and health, his
--
environments so we have to make sure we talk slow for him.
Since he has gotten the implant, we have been noticing that he has a
hard time managing his BTE processor, oxygen tube and glasses all on
--
An article from Advanced Bionics:
Advanced Bionics is connecting cochlear implant recipients and
candidates from across the country through its new "Connect to Mentor"
--
community of its kind, Advanced Bionics, the only U.S.-based
manufacturer of cochlear implants (or "bionic ears"), is connecting
cochlear recipients and candidates from across the country through its
new "Connect to Mentor" Web site. The new site, part of the BEA (Bionic
Ear Association) Mentor Program, allows cochlear implant candidates to
contact volunteer "mentors" and communicate directly with hearing
--
this Web site, the company realized that its most valuable assets are
cochlear implant recipients themselves. This site allows them to share
their experiences, offer advice to others who might be thinking of
being implanted, and help them navigate the process from surgery to
entering the hearing world."
--
that came with it, I would just plug in my direct connect cord from my
implant to the recorder so I could hear it better. It was great!
But suprisingly, this place was more advanced and had personal
--
BEA Mentor Training Weekend with about 40 other people who also have
the Advanced Bionics Cochlear Implant or someone else in their family
does. It was so much fun learning about the company, about the things
--
hearing about their hearing journey and what it was like for them to go
through the process of getting the implant. It’s amazing to me to hear
all the stories of what it was like, because it seems like we all have
--
back for a couple months for some more therapy.
Advanced Bionics, as you probably already know, is the Cochlear Implant
company I have… best choice I ever made! This is the link to their
--
A Flock of Geese
My friend John, who just got the implant, was telling me today about
how he heard a flock of geese for the first time!
--
We weren't sure about how he was going to do up there with the Cochlear
Implant and headphones.... but surprisingly he could hear everything
and could have a conversation over the headset! So that was great
--
discrimination got worse in 2005, which is when I got my
Advanced Bionics Cochlear Implant. Now I wear the CI on my right
ear and a hearing aid on my left. I'm a student at North Georgia
--
"I enjoy mentoring people who are going through the same situations
that I went through in deciding to get the implant, going through the
urgery, and learning how to hear all over again or even for the first
time. I got my CI at the end of my freshman year in High School so I
can remember what it was like before I got the implant and how my life
has changed ever since.
--
brother Jonathan and my Grandpa Sam, both of whom have the CI as well.
My brother was implanted at age 5 and my grandpa was implanted at age
85."
-Click Picture to learn more!-
With my Cochlear Implant, I can:
"Be a normal teenager/young adult and enjoy my college experience with
