Hey everyone! Well things have been going good here. I've been wearing
my hearing aid and my implant and it seems to really help me alot. I've
noticed that I can't function very well with just my hearing aid so I
always have to wear my implant....which is a good thing!! It shows that
the implant really deos help me and I hear better with the implant. Its
been about 4 months since I've had this implant and I am still noticing
more sounds and hearing more. Like yesterday....it was so cool... I was
--
But anyways, I think I did pretty well on hearing everyone. I had to
wear my hearing aid and my implant becuase I don't really know enough
to go completly implant in public. But the only problem I reall had was
in noisy enviroments. But I think that is alwasy going to be harder for
--
ride home I began to realise how thankful I am for the new technology
we have today! Without this implant I wouldn't be able to talk to my
friends, listen to my music - which is by the way EVERYTHING to me,
--
family on the phone. I wouldn't be able to hear anything!!! Now what
kind of life is that?? So for all of you new implant users..... don't
give up! If you do....just think about the life you'll end up with.
--
Burton. And yesterday we were loading the car and cleaning the lake
house. Its like 90 degrees out so my brother told me to take my implant
off because of the sweat. That was annoying because I like to hear
--
from the wind of the boat. So to me it was just easier to use my
hearing aid. Which wasn't very good!!! : ( But I did use the implant
whenever I could. I think it's a "life-saver" to have my brother around
(who is by the way also an Advanced Bionics Implant user) because he
tells me what I can and can't do with my implant. I always forget, like
when we were going to the playground...He reminded me to take it off
--
to work. : )
Reasons why I wanted this Implant
My hearing was borderline on being a candidate for the Advanced Bionic
Cochlear Implant for a long time. But the reasons we were holding back
was becuase of my speech. We didn't know if it would go down or if it
--
already had to go through this with my brother, so she already did all
the resaerch on which implant was the best. So that was one step less
for me. We had already decided that we were going to do the Advanced
Bionics Implant becuase my brother had such a success with it. Other
things that we really liked about the Advanced Bionics Implants were:
the service we get (it was fantastic everytime we needed something or
--
looks "sleeker" and more stylish). So you can tell we are big fans of
the Advanced Bionics Cochlear Implant. But anyways, when thinking about
this, there were a whole list of things I wanted to get out of it, such
--
I want to hear everything possible in this world!! So these are my
goals through this journey of having the Implant. Maybe this will help
you make an easier decision on getting the implant.
July 6, 2005
Getting used to the Cochlear Implant
Hey! Well today I'm sitting around the house, nasty weather huh? But
--
But oh well. I've also relized that I keep forgeting that I only have
my implant on! Thats GREAT huh?? Right now my hearing aid is in the
dry-box just collecting dust. haha. I've been leaving it there and
--
June 30, 2005
Interesting Point about dealing with the Cochlear Implant
I was talking to this lady about my Cochlear Implant and she made an
interesting point and I thought I'd share with you. She said that the
proccess of learning to hear with the implant is like getting glasses.
When you don't have your glasses on everything is fussy and when you
have them on, you have to learn what the fuzzy thing really was. So
with the implant...you may not hear any noise when doing the dishes but
when you get the implant you'll hear noises and you have to get used to
the fact that the sound is from the water.
And I think that is so true becuase when you get the implant, so don't
all the sudden know what each sound is and where it is coming from. It
takes time to "train" your brain what all the noises are coming from.
So for the new implant users, don't get discouraged, becuase afterall
in the the long run we will be able to hear a lot! Hey, maybe even more
--
was really the first thing I noticed to be different from my cochlear
Implant and my hearing aid. Another thing that I noticed to be louder
is a light switch. lol. When I turn on a light switch I hear it. I've
--
Oh and here is a picture of me and my brother. We both have the
Advanced Bionocs Cochlear Implant. He has the BTE and I have the new
Auria. (up above) We both love it!
--
would get so annoying and loud that I couldn't hear or talk to people
very well. I couldn't even hear the t.v with just my implant. And
before this noise came I would turn off my hearing aid because I could
--
OH MY GOSH!!! GUESS WHAT I'M DOING RIGHT NOW.....LISTENING TO MUSIC!
Yep I am listening to music with my implant!!! YAY!!!! I'm so excited.
I put my headphones on to listen to music while I blog and I could
--
with my mom and I was leaning against the car and I looked over the
other way (the side with my implant) and all the sudden my implant goes
flying off and attaches itself to the car!!! Oh my gosh!! I couldn't
--
things happen but I never thought it would actually happen to me. Can
you believe it?? So new implant users - BEWARE! THE IMPLANT IS A MAGNET
SO IT WILL ATTACHE ITSELF TO METAL!!! lol.
--
My First Day into the New World
On May the 17th I went to get my Cochlear Implant turned on. I was so
excited, sad, nervous, and everything you could possibly imagine. But
most of all I was happy and very excited. But I will tell you this - if
you are getting the implant PLEASE remember this.... Your parents WILL
cry and get very emotional. I know this because my mom is a very strong
--
for the record, be aware that your parents, or your husband or wife
will get very emotional from getting the news of having the implant to
getting turned on.
--
and ask questions, look around, etc. But the first thing we did was
that we got my implant out - most people would probably have to sit
there and put it together - but you know me...I just had to put it
--
that "normal" people hear, I was excited!! I just couldn't wait to get
turned on. So we got the implant out and hooked it to the computer with
this long cord. Then we did some tests to set the volumes right and see
--
exausted but I could do it. It just takes time to get back on your feet
again. So that was the first week of having my Implant.
Newer Posts Home
--
discrimination got worse in 2005, which is when I got my
Advanced Bionics Cochlear Implant. Now I wear the CI on my right
ear and a hearing aid on my left. I'm a student at North Georgia
--
"I enjoy mentoring people who are going through the same situations
that I went through in deciding to get the implant, going through the
urgery, and learning how to hear all over again or even for the first
time. I got my CI at the end of my freshman year in High School so I
can remember what it was like before I got the implant and how my life
has changed ever since.
--
brother Jonathan and my Grandpa Sam, both of whom have the CI as well.
My brother was implanted at age 5 and my grandpa was implanted at age
85."
-Click Picture to learn more!-
With my Cochlear Implant, I can:
"Be a normal teenager/young adult and enjoy my college experience with
