Feed The Account of Our Arrows » Cochlear Implant Category Feed The
Account of Our Arrows WordPress.com
--
Living life intentionally despite the loosely controlled chaos
Category Archives: Cochlear Implant
Aug1
--
Wyatt very often, but they have a blast with him when they do!While we
were in Opp EK got to use her new Aquabag from Cochlear.  Her implant
tayed on so well and she LOVED hearing while she swam.  So thankful
--
best friend’s weddings, and we move MONDAY!!!  So excited!
Filed under Birthday Parties, Celebrating, Cochlear Implant, Day to
Day, Family, Opp, Road Trips | 2 Comments
--
mild to moderate hearing loss on that side.  EK also has fluid, but if
we put tubes in, it could get the internal part of the implant wet…so
we’re hoping that clears up on its own.  After their appt. we ate lunch
--
chipmunk with a dress who sings “All the Single Ladies.”
Filed under Birthday Parties, CCPS, Celebrating, Cochlear Implant, Day
to Day, Hearing, Kids |
--
7th (yikes!) birthday to post about.
Filed under Caden, CCPS, Celebrating, Cochlear Implant, Crafts, Day to
Day, Ella Kate, Friends, PreSchool |
--
A couple weeks ago we went to The McWane Center to celebrate Dr.
Woolley’s 300 implant recipients.  He’s done many more than 300
implants since most of the kids he implants now are bilateral.  EK
wouldn’t look at the camera for our pic with Dr. Woolley…probably
because the room we were in was LOUD and full of people.  We are so
thankful for the gift of cochlear implants and are forever grateful for
them and Dr. Woolley.  The McWane Center is such a neat place, but I
--
thoughtfulness, and crazy. :)
Filed under Caden, CCPS, Celebrating, Cochlear Implant, Day to Day,
Ella Kate, Family, John Luke, PreSchool, Surgery |
--
meet my expectations. :)
Filed under Caden, CCPS, Cochlear Implant, Day to Day, Ella Kate, Fun
with the Neighbors, John Luke, Therapy |
--
pool because it was just too hard.  It was too hard to protect her
implants from the water.  It was too hard to keep them dry.  If we
took her implants off it was too hard to keep up with her because
SHE COULDN’T HEAR A THING.  So, this my friends will be phenomenal.
--
well.  I love time with our little family.  They make me smile. :)
Filed under Cochlear Implant, Day to Day, Family, Hearing, Kids,
Soccer, Therapy and tagged , , , , |
--
picked Caden up early from school for fun.
Filed under Cochlear Implant, Day to Day, Ella Kate, Kids, PreSchool,
Therapy |
--
Compare the 2 audiograms. You can see how well she hears with her
implants on. It is very exciting to see how she hears almost everything
on the audiogram. She may or may not hear the birds chirping or the
--
That brings me to 2 Sundays ago…I’ll add more in a little bit…
Filed under Birthday Parties, Celebrating, Church, Cochlear Implant,
Day to Day, Family, Hearing, Kids, Opp, Road Trips, Therapy |
--
back up that had been drying. Phew, it worked. Sigh. Of. Relief. Come
to find out…I got our audiologist to look at the implant cochlear sent
us that wasn’t working properly and…it had NO MAPS IN IT! Cochlear sent
us an empty CI. All of our implants are working properly at the moment
and the empty implant has been mapped. It sure is nerve racking
ometimes when we depend on an electronic device for our child’s
hearing, but I’m oh so thankful for them!!
Filed under Cochlear Implant, Disney, Ella Kate |
Apr12
Did we find the implant? No. No we did not. Sad story. It was not for
lack of trying. I went back up there about 9am. We used the under water
--
I’m sad we’re cashing in the one replacement less than 6 months after
he got her implant, but I’m thankful we have that option. This
afternoon we headed over to our insurance agents office and got a
--
purchase some other insurance through Cochlear which would allow us to
lose one implant per year. I feel so much better about it all now.
I am so thankful to the good ole boys who helped us yesterday and
--
they did for us. They spent 7 hours of their day searching through the
lake for our babies implant. I got to hang out with some motorcycle
riding, overall and camo wearing, tobacco dipping, unemployed Southern
guys. It was quite an enlightening week. While they did not find the
implant, it was certainly not because they didn’t give it their all.
So, there you have it…we didn’t find it, but it’s not a huge deal. We
--
the replacement. Hopefully that will come within the next week.
Filed under Cochlear Implant, Day to Day, Ella Kate |
Post navigation
