tage, Ava is learning how to identify the various parts of her
cochlear implant and indicate when her cochlear implant and FM system
are not giving a clear signal.  Self-advocacy is a very important skill
--
better, she is reading well above grade level.  I find that many of our
CI kiddoes who were identified early and implanted at a young age, do
extremely well in reading.  This gives them a great foundation to carry
--
would love to share.
TRAVELLING WITH COCHLEAR IMPLANTS
My husband and I travelled with Lauren and Ava to Mexico last month.
--
to work one on one with the TOD.  One of the projects they will work on
is introducing her cochlear implants to her classmates.  Cochlear
Corporation apparently has colouring books that we can order which Ava
can give to her class while she is doing her presentation.
There are a couple exciting products for cochlear implants that I am
dying to share:
--
my hands on ANYTHING I could find out about deafness and cochlear
implants for Ava, who had just been diagnosed as profoundly deaf, I
came across this amazing blog "Cochlearimplantonline.com".  The creator
of that blog, is Rachel Chaikof.  Rachel is a young woman who is deaf
and has bilateral cochlear implants.  She was implanted at the age of 3
in 1989 and was one of the first children to be implanted in the U.S.
Rachel is a success story.  She excelled in school, mastered the french
--
place where one can learn all he or she needs to know about  hearing
loss and cochlear implants.  For your tireless efforts to spread
awareness about hearing loss.  And especially for taking the time to
--
ystem, weekly intervention with her d/hh itinerant teacher, in-service
for the staff on cochlear implants,  her classroom will have the
appropriate modifications made to reduce background noise such as hush
--
ensorineural hearing loss in September, 2008. She received
imultaneous bilateral cochlear implants when she was 9 months old on
March 31, 2009. Today she is 6 years old and is on par with her hearing
--
hearing
Cochlear Implant Accessories
Ava's Spoken Words and Approximations
