Posts on 'Life is Bliss - Lily's Cochlear Implant Journey' (RSS 1.0)
Posts on 'Life is Bliss - Lily's Cochlear Implant Journey' (RSS 2.0)
Home

Life is Bliss - Lily's Cochlear Implant Journey
About
Speaking Gigs
Cochlear Implant journey. Contact us for more information.
Search
--
Audiology)
Jace Wolfe: Programming Cochlear Implants (Core Clincal Concepts in
and Talking, Birth to Six
--
Feedjit Live Blog Stats
Cochlear Implants
January 10, 2016
--
peech-to-text captioning device.
American Cochlear Implant Alliance - View materials from their plenary
and special sessions at their recent conference.
--
out her Advanced Bionics Harmony BTEs and wear them at home. We
received the Harmonies when Lily was first implanted, but have never
activated them, because Lily has always prefered the Body Worns and
--
Love that her hopes and dreams include inventing a static proof
cochlear implant and to become a cochlear implant designer.   Hopefully
Advanced Bionics will have a job for her in 20 or so years.
--
On the last day, one of the Moms of the other students came over to me
and said I see Lily has Cochlear Implants.  Instantly I wondered what
her connection with the "hearing" world was.   She pulled her hair back
and said, "I have one too.  I was implanted after college and have had
it about 15 years."  While I was amazed, Lily thought it was only
--
It's been a huge week.  After two years of requests, Lily and the other
kids with cochlear implants at her school, can now go down one metal
lide without fear of damaging their electronic hearing equipment from
--
of herself acting out both roles.
Next year we hope to complete a cochlear implant or acoustics study,
but this year we didn't find the right approach for a first grader.
--
Interesting study from Ear and Hearing of Spoken Language Outcomes in
children with unilateral versus bilateral cochlear implants.
Children with bilateral CIs achieved significantly better vocabulary
--
related to parenting, child characteristics, and family background.
When Lily was implanted six years ago, the big debate was one or two
implants.  Our sense was that she had two ears, so she should have two
implants right away.  There was very little research about the benefits
of two implants at the time. Many families were debating about "saving
one ear for future technology."  I don't hear that phrase today.  Two
implants seem like a standard practice.
Lily's Mom at 11:27 PM | Permalink | Comments (0)
--
February 10, 2014
Early Cochlear Implant Switch-On
Interesting research summary on the Safety and Functional Results of
Early Cochlear Implant Switch-On in Children.   That means instead of
waiting for four weeks before they switched the implant on, they only
waited for one week.   Even five years ago, Lily's implant center only
waited 10 days.
"This is the first study investigating the safety and the effects of an
early cochlear implant switch-on in children. Results show that such a
procedure is well tolerated by pediatric subjects and free from
--
Lily's Mom at 06:50 AM | Permalink | Comments (0)
/1h3BrO1&text=Early Cochlear Implant Switch-On &count=horizontal
February 09, 2014
Cochlear Implant with no external hardware
Fascinating article on the future of cochlear implants.
Researchers have developed a new, low-power signal-processing chip,
which sits in the middle ear, that could lead to a cochlear implant
with no external hardware. The implant would be wirelessly recharged
and would run for about eight hours on each charge.
Lily's Mom at 08:24 PM | Permalink | Comments (0)
/M3s3fe&text=Cochlear Implant with no external
hardware&count=horizontal
--
Cecilia - A little girl who changed our lives
The night before Lily's implantation we watched a marketing video from
Advanced Bionics about a little girl named Cecilia who received a
cochlear implant around the age of two.   She was independent,
confident, talking, seemed really smart and had great parents.  We
--
January 16, 2014
Gene therapy to improve cochlear implants?
Facinating article on new research that has investigated the
--
/1dUGt7Z&text=Gene therapy to improve cochlear
implants?&count=horizontal
January 14, 2014
Family uses media effectively to gain cochlear implant coverage
Great story of a family overcoming an insurance denial by Conventry for
Cochlear Implant coverage.  He even received Advanced Bionics.
http://news.yahoo.com/video/life-changing-ear-operation-helps-230943724
--
Lily's Mom at 06:29 AM | Permalink | Comments (0)
/1iNi6hf&text=Family uses media effectively to gain cochlear implant
coverage&count=horizontal
--
Love the innovation of the family who created CIWear, an active wear
hirt with pockets for cochlear implants and other electronic devices.
Where to put the Neptune processors is a challenge that adults and
--
December 22, 2013
Therapy via IPads for children with cochlear implants
Great story on using IPads for teletherapy in a program called
BabyTalk.  For newly implanted children under three, this program helps
babies in Northern California learn how to listen and speak.  It's a
--
/19kk20n&text=Therapy via IPads for children with cochlear
implants&count=horizontal
December 20, 2013
--
New study out of Penn State showing long-term positive outcomes of
cochlear implantation.
The research shows that on average, children improve in oral
communication skills and have better peer relationships years after
implantation, rather than immediately after. Even implant recipients
who performed poorly several years after the procedure continue to
--
in their early development to build healthy levels of self-esteem and
confidence. The degree to which implanted children are accepted by
mainstream schools – whether they are understood by their teachers and
--
Study: Hearing preservation
Interesting study on Hearing preservation for Cochlear Implant
outcomes.
--
and HEARing Cooperative Research Centre (CRC) better understand how the
human brain processes information from a cochlear implant.
For the first time, scientists can use a well-established brain imaging
technique called MEG, or magnetoencephalography, to measure brain
function in recipients of cochlear implants, including young children.
The new device overcomes the electromagnetic restrictions of cochlear
implants, enabling researchers to gain valuable insight into this
established and effective solution for people with hearing loss.
--
September 12, 2013
Cochlear Implant history and pioneers
The 2013 Lasker~DeBakey Clinical Medical Research Award honors three
cientists who developed the modern cochlear implant, a device that
restores hearing to individuals with profound deafness. Through their
--
medical intervention.
Check out their incredible video interview of cochlear implant pioneers
Graeme M. Clark, Ingeborg Hochmair and Blake S. Wilson and an extensive
description of the history of the development of the cochlear implant.
It's hard to believe the FDA only gave its inaugural approval to a
multichannel cochlear implant in 1985 for treating adults who could
hear before they went deaf.
Lily's Mom at 06:04 AM | Permalink | Comments (0)
/1e5w0vb&text=Cochlear Implant history and pioneers&count=horizontal
September 11, 2013
Class presentation on cochlear implants and other fun stuff
Lily and I have now given two presentations on hearing and cochlear
implants at her school.  The first was a presentation to her own
class.  We started by asking if there was anything different about
--
her class about sound, asked if we could come talk about Cochlear
Implants and hearing.  Her class had read a small piece about cochlear
implants in their textbook and they were very interested in the
ubject.
--
compassionate bunch.   Their questions ranged from how does a CI work
to what happens if someone can't pay for an implant.
We tried to inspire the students to become scientists, engineers or
--
Lily's Mom at 06:43 AM | Permalink | Comments (0)
/17pKjWf&text=Class presentation on cochlear implants and other fun
tuff&count=horizontal
--
With Naída CI, AB brings performance and wireless connectivity and now
cochlear implant recipients have access to the combined technologies of
AB & Phonak.
--
CI Toolkit for parents and teachers
Recently I received The Cochlear Implant School Toolkit which was
funded by a Small Business Innovation Research Grant from the National
--
create peer acceptance and to smooth the integration of children
with cochlear implants into mainstream classrooms
teachers, and children
examples for teaching a student with a cochlear implant, tips for
creating an inclusive classroom, suggestions for classroom
--
been through the mainstreaming process with a child with a cochlear
implant.
All of the pieces are well done and an impressive advisory panel guided
--
The research-based teacher's toolkit should be standard reading for
each teacher that has a child with a cochlear implant.  The guide has
been espeically useful for Lily's school.  Lily's teacher is very
--
The company that developed this toolkit is also working on The Cochlear
Implant University which will support high school and college students
with cochlear implants and their parents as the student transitions to
higher education.
The toolkit is a must read for all famlies and teachers who work with
kids with Cochlear Implants.
Lily's Mom at 10:10 PM | Permalink | Comments (0)
--
August 01, 2013
Cochlear Implant Balance Research Study
We've participated in various cochlear implant research studies over
the past five years because we feel it's important to give back and
--
Last week, Lily was in a balance study at Boystown that was trying to
determine if there was a connection between cochlear implantation and
balance issues.  The researchers asked Lily to walk, hop, stand on a
--
Lily's Mom at 06:09 AM | Permalink | Comments (1)
/1edjTrA&text=Cochlear Implant Balance Research Study&count=horizontal
Next »
