helpdesk    donate
From hearing aids to cochlear implant
A guest blog by Kirsteen Allison
Kirsteen Allison blogs about her cochlear implant From hearing aids to
cochlear implant is a guest blog by Kirsteen Allison.
Kirsteen is a working mum in Scotland writing about her cochlear
implant and experiences of deafness 2012/2013.
Watch a short video of Kirsteen at switch on.
From hearing aids to cochlear implant RSS Feed
One year on
--
But its still a big improvement!
I had another check up at the Cochlear Implant Centre where I underwent
the same tests as before - watching a video with and without sound. The
--
dropped. I was told this was because I was relying more on hearing than
lipreading and this is to be expected with cochlear implants.
I'm really pleased with my results!
I also had my hearing aid in my non implanted ear adjusted although the
ound will never be as good as I want it to be. I would still love a
econd implant and be bi-lateral but I just have to wait and hope that
things change in the near future!
--
'focusing' on hearing something, if that makes sense.
I think next time I visit the cochlear implant centre, I'll ask for
advice and help with noisy situations. On my last visit, I had two of
--
My updates are less frequent now, sorry everyone, but that's because
I've been busy and also because my appointments at the cochlear implant
centre are decreasing so I haven't had much to report. I get check ups
--
hearing in that ear than to go without. Also if I were ever to get a
econd implant, the transition would be easier if I have spent some
time being bimodal (which means using a cocglear implant and hearing
aid together).
Speaking of a second implant, I spoke with the head of centre at my
appointment. I explained I really wanted a second implant and asked if
there was any way of making this possible. However the centre said I do
--
I hope to be able to share my experiences here once I'm matched, so
that my blog will be an interesting mix of cochlear implants and
hearing dogs!
--
christmas etc so apologies for the lack of updates.
At the end of November, my cochlear implant centre advised me to
reintroduce a hearing aid into my non implanted ear. I wore it for a
month before I had to stop wearing it.
I really hated the difference in sound between the cochlear implant and
the hearing aid. The sound is not balanced. The sound coming into the
--
Obviously the hearing aid cannot give sound as good as the cochlear
implant but I was surprised by how quiet and poor the sound was,
considering I wore hearing aids for 25 years pre implantation. I could
not turn it up any louder.
--
I was taking steps backwards rather than forwards on my journey to
better hearing. I felt I did better with the cochlear implant alone so
I stopped wearing the hearing aid.
My audiologist did say that she did not want my brain to work for the
hearing aid over the cochlear implant so therefore she would set the
hearing aid a little lower. I will see when I return to the centre if
--
carry on without it.
Ideally I would like two cochlear implants so the sound is 'equal' in
both ears but a second implantation (for adults) is dependent on
funding and circumstances such as additional disabilities. I hope one
day this changes!
As for the current cochlear implant, I'm hearing more things all the
time. Popcorn popping at the cinema and being able to follow the whole
--
On this, you can see where I was back in May when I underwent all the
assessments for a cochlear implant. You can also see where I am now. A
big improvement, don't you think?
tests pre and post cochlear implants
I reckon this is proof more than anything that I made the right
decision to have a cochlear implant and I hope it offers others
considering an implant some reassurance that it is indeed worthwhile. I
can hear so much now - fire alarms, telephones ringing, music playing
--
I would be able to cope better in a college environment with the
implant. I'm also exercising more - again I'd avoid exercise classes
because of the fear I wouldn't understand the instructions and go the
--
I am due back at the hospital to reintroduce my hearing aid into my
right (non implanted) ear. I'm a bit unsure about this as my surgeon
told me many implantees find they do not like wearing a hearing aid in
their 'other' ear as the sounds are conflicting and confusing.
Then again, some implantees do fine with a hearing aid and a cochlear
implant together. I'm not sure how I will feel but I am very conscious
of the lack of sound coming into that ear so I'm keen to try it and see
--
I also saw Skyfall twice. Skyfall is the first film I've seen post
implant. Previously I would go to a film and either spend the majority
of it going "what did he say?", "why is she doing that?" or get the
--
longer. I've adjusted really well, in fact sometimes I forget I only
have a cochlear implant in one ear!
It's improving all the time. I can hear music playing when I go to the
--
and give me a very quick test. The audiogram showed my hearing with
hearing aids compared with my 'new' hearing with my cochlear implant.
There's been a HUGE improvement in just 4 weeks. I am hearing things
--
gone, so yippee!
I returned to the cochlear implant centre six days after switch on and
I was in quite a bad mood. The beeping and squeaking was driving me
--
There are four programmes in total. The other two programmes with my
implant are 'focus' and 'music'. I think these are more or less self
explanatory. I will not receive these programmes until later although I
--
Hearing Link had given me. The physicist (the guy who put the 'electric
drill' through my ears a while back!) set the cochlear implant up. He
explained he would first go through 22 channels and I would hear
--
began to sound a bit more normal. I wasn't aware there were 22 channels
Then he told me he would switch the implant on and I would hear pretty
much everything. Wow, what a lot of noise! I clutched my hands to my
--
it will never start to make sense unless I bear with it.
I was given two programmes on my Cochlear Implant to start with -
programmes one and two. I'm currently on programme one and I've to
--
when I do. I'm getting rather beeped off!
I go back to the Cochlear Implant Centre next week to report back and
get some more adjustments. I will have to return several times in my
--
28 August 2012
Here's me talking about my implant - after surgery but before switch
on.
--
the mornings.
Kirsteen's implant scar - after 1 day When I washed my hair, I made
ure I had someone to help me. I put cotton wool in my ear and tilted
--
On the ward, I had visits from the anaethesist, a lady from the
cochlear implant centre and my surgeon. The anaethesist explained the
process of going to sleep and checked if I had any allergies etc. As I
had anaethestic previously with appendicitis, I knew what to expect.
The lady from the cochlear implant centre brought instruction manuals
for my Cochlear speech processor and remote control for me to read
--
information she gave me I already knew through undertaking research and
peaking to other implantees. I told her all about my blog and she took
a note of it, so hello if you are reading!
--
into a funny hairstyle. I'm so vain, he laughed at my expression! He
drew an arrow on my neck to indicate which ear would be implanted and
asked me to sign a consent form. I asked if the implant would be 'high
up' on my head but he reassured me it would be quite low.
--
I will be in hospital for a few days and it will be 4-6 weeks before my
implant is ‘switched on’. I reckon I’ll be very impatient during this
time!
--
was also asked if I smoked and drank. It took about an hour overall.
Why is only one ear implanted?
It's to do both with funding and the N.I.C.E guidelines (which you can
Google). These guidelines advise children should be bilaterally
implanted and adults with certain additional disabilities should be
considered. Cochlear Implants are very expensive. There are several
upport groups easily found via the internet if you need further
--
The rehabilitation process is most likely described on your Cochlear
Implant Centre's website or leaflets that they issue you with. It can
take 9 months to a year before you are receiving the full benefits of
the implant. It will not restore full hearing and there will be several
appointments to adjust your implant to get the sound as best as it can
be for you.
--
effect is only temporary and I was warned it may happen.
My expectations for my implant
16 July 2012
Well, for the implant to be a ‘success’ for me, I would like to be able
to enjoy music again. It's hard to describe how it sounds now with my
--
hearing aids and that it will take a long time to get ‘back to normal’.
I also worry that one cochlear implant will not be enough. Would I need
two? Would I need to use a hearing aid in the other ear?
I asked these questions when at the Cochlear Implant Centre and was
told:
9 months to a year to get the full benefit of a cochlear implant.
additional disabilities. The centre follows the N.I.C.E guidelines.
least 6 months to help me get used to my implant. I was advised
ome people find they do not like it as the two sounds are very
different. Some people on the other hand find it is helpful.
responds differently to the implant.
Information and expectations. Day 2
--
wait being around 9 weeks.
Finally it was back to viewing the cochlear implant and explaining how
it would work. I would receive advice on how to use the speech
--
I had to complete a computer questionnaire where I had to rank where I
thought my hearing would be after my implant on a scale of 1-10. This
was to check my expectations were realistic.
Finally I was able to view the different types of Cochlear Implant. My
centre offers three brands – Cochlear, Advanced Bionics and Med El. I
--
encountered was deaf aware.
Obviously this is where the Cochlear Implant Centre is based so that
explains why they are more deaf aware than other hospitals, but I
--
each attempt sign language with me (which I don’t actually speak). I
thought only the staff in the Cochlear Implant centre would know
this.
--
05 June 2012
I had my assessment days over two days at the Cochlear Implant Centre.
When my appointment letter came through, it offered April, which was a
--
deaf I am. I had never considered myself as a candidate for a Cochlear
Implant and always thought I wouldn’t be ‘deaf enough’ for one. I felt
I was managing okay with the support I already have and with my family
--
consider one and said she would refer me to the ENT consultant. My
hearing loss had progressed to the stage where an implant would be
enormously beneficial. When I met with the ENT consultant, I was still
--
confused and feeling quite emotional and scared. The ENT Consultant’s
words were that an implant would make my hearing ‘much much much
better’.
So that was the start of my journey towards getting a Cochlear Implant.
I will blog soon about my assessment days.
