letters for luke & notes for noah
Showing posts with label cochlear implants. Show all posts
Monday, April 14, 2014
--
in his L ear and a severe loss in his R ear.  We have gotten hearing
aids, a cochlear implant, started preschool, continued with intense
peech therapy, are learning a new language (ASL) and had another
--
Posted by Kate at 9:31 AM 4 comments
Labels: audiology, cochlear implants, deaf, hard of hearing, hearing
aides, hearing loss, Noah, speech and language
--
his Mom's side (got that?).  As we sat down, the lady behind me said,
"He's has a cochlear implant" about Noah.  I turned around and smiled
and saw the cutest 17 year old girl sitting next to her.  The Mom then
proceeds to tell me, "She is bilaterally implanted".  The girl pulled
back her hair and I saw N5's on her ears.  Noah was overjoyed and kept
--
Posted by Kate at 3:39 PM 1 comments
Labels: CI, cochlear implants, deaf, family, hard of hearing, hearing
aides, hearing loss, Noah
--
Noah and if anyone asks, Luke is quick to jump in with "This is my
brother's cochlear implant processor.  It's held to his head by a
magnet and it helps him hear".  It's so precious.
Posted by Kate at 1:47 PM 0 comments
Labels: audiology, brothers, CI, cochlear implants, hard of hearing,
hearing loss, Lucile Packard, Luke, Noah, sibling of special needs kid,
--
which took the majority of the time.  For those of you not versed in
the CI world, Noah's implant will be gradually turned up over the
course of the next 6 months.  On his CI there are "programs" and he is
--
[photo.JPG]
Noah's Cochlear Implant--with a Finn McMissile cover
Posted by Kate at 11:13 AM 1 comments
Labels: CI, cochlear implants, deaf, genetics, hard of hearing, hearing
loss, Lucile Packard, Noah, Stanford
--
[image+(2).jpeg]
In recovery.  Notice that Curious George also has a cochlear implant!
We waited for another 2 hours in recovery for Noah to wake up.  He was
--
Posted by Kate at 3:05 PM 4 comments
Labels: CI, cochlear implants, deaf, hard of hearing, hearing aides,
hearing loss, Lucile Packard, Noah, speech and language, Stanford,
--
Posted by Kate at 1:53 PM 1 comments
Labels: CI, cochlear implants, deaf, growing up, hard of hearing,
hearing loss, Lucile Packard, Luke, Noah, Stanford, surgery
