Kate's Cochlear Implant WordPress.com

Kate's Cochlear Implant
A blog about my experience of being deaf and getting a cochlear
implant.
February 19, 2010
My final post? 7 months on
Posted by Kate under About me, cochlear implant, deaf, hearing aids,
hearing loss | Tags: after switch on, audiologist, audiology, cochlear
implant, deafness, hearing aids |
[49] Comments
--
report.
I know it has only been 7 months since I got the implant (7 months! is
that all???! Can you believe it?) But already, I think I have reached
the peak, and plateaued. The implant will not get any better or
different now in my right ear. It has reached its’ ‘zenith’.
--
Normal pjhone and TTY phone now sit on my desk together.
It's goodbye TTY, hello normal phone since I had the implant. However,
I keep the TTY on my desk just in case! Can't shake the feeling of
--
deaf.
So, as you can see – the cochlear implant actually did what I dreamt it
would do – it allowed me to reconnect with the world on the phone
--
So, if I am going to leave anyone with a word of advice, or perhaps a
message to the deaf community, or maybe parents considering an implant
– having been through this all before, having met so many people who’ve
had implants, having talked to ENT surgeons, doctors, audiologists and
researched online – it would be this:
Kate’s Final View on Cochlear Implants
Disclaimer, this is only my view, no one elses. You might think it’s
--
its a clever, well-thought out comment. I’ll delete stoopid ones!
hearing aid, except it is implanted in your head.
just like hearing aids. To find out whether you are a good
candidate, you need to see your cochlear implant specialist. A
normal audiologist just won’t cut it – they just don’t know the
--
years.
implant after 5 years old seem to find it harder to adjust – maybe
because of crucial years of language development have passed? Not
ure.
age of 5 years old seem to find their cochlear implant more useful.
20 per cent of the time you will not be using it (i.e. swimming,
--
ign language and lip-reading to use with your family and friends.
I am glad I got the implant. I am also glad I waited because it was an
emotional ride. But I would do it all again, definitely. If I had a
deaf child tomorrow, I would give it a cochlear implant before the age
of 4, teach it sign language and show it how to lip-read.
--
Here are my final test results for the 6 month test at the Sydney
Cochlear Implant Centre – please note the disclaimer my audi asked that
I include on my hearing aid result!
--
running speech.
Freedom Cochlear Implant hearing test result
This is the test result for my Freedom Cochlear Implant, in my left
ear.
--
But I am going to hold off for a few years, only because the hearing
aid balances out the sound of the cochlear implant, and makes
everything sound ‘normal’.
--
new blog:
“Kate’s Second And Hopefully Final Cochlear Implant”!
Who knows!
--
hearing loss, Living with deafness | Tags: advocacy work, captioning,
cost of cochlear implants, deafness, government support for cochlear
implants |
[5] Comments
--
Looking back: The isolation of deafness and considering suicide
Posted by Kate under About me, cochlear implant, deaf, hearing loss,
Living with deafness | Tags: deafness |
--
November 30, 2009
Listening to TV on plane flight with cochlear implant
Posted by Kate under cochlear implant, deaf, hearing aids, Living with
deafness | Tags: after switch on, cochlear implant, flying with
cochlear implants, t-switch, telecoil |
[19] Comments
--
will be better than just being bored out of my mind.
I held up the headphones to my hearing aid and cochlear implant and
tried to follow the TV – I could hear it, but it was so static-ey and
unclear, it was really disappointing. On a whim, I decided to try the
‘t-switch’ on both hearing aid and cochlear implant, which shuts out
all the background noise, and only picks up the radio signals coming
--
Wrapping my scraf around my head I managed to get the ear bud close
enough to the cochlear implant microphone to be able to hear the audio
for the TV/movies on the Virgin Blue flight. I sat like this for 5
--
Small obstacle was the fact that the headphones provided were ear-bud
types. Now that is difficult for cochlear implantees, since the
microphone for picking up sound is behind your ear, not in it!
--
It’s been 4.5 months now
Posted by Kate under About me, cochlear implant, deaf, Living with
deafness | Tags: after switch on, cochlear implant, deafness, hearing
aids |
--
So it’s been four and a half months now since I got the cochlear
implant in my right ear.
I haven’t written an update in a while, because I haven’t felt like
--
So… yes. It is amazing. I am still profoundly deaf when I take off my
cochlear implant and hearing aid, but now I can actually hear stuff
when I have them on.
--
hortlisted!
As for other stuff happening with the cochlear implant – I was over at
my friend Georgia’s house the other week, having an ‘infrared sauna’.
--
back in tiny letters it said: “Do not use this sauna if you have an
implant i.e. pace maker or silicon.”
And I was like “WHAAAAAAAAT!!!!!??” slapped my hand over my ear, and
--
with Cochlear Ltd later – they said that according to their information
from engineers etc, infrared shouldn’t affect cochlear implants (nor
hould any other sauna – good to know!).
Yay for cochlear implants. Such a new invention, it’s like being the
first person to walk on the moon or something. You just don’t know what
--
October 19, 2009
Is a cochlear implant really that good?
Posted by Kate under cochlear implant, deaf, Living with deafness |
Tags: after switch on, cochlear implant, cochlear implant surgery |
[92] Comments
--
And I think it’s a really valid comment.
I was extremely suspicious of anyone that told me a cochlear implant
was good before I had one, and for good reason. It’s just hard to
--
a different experience.
I decided to get an implant after I saw a deaf woman I know who had two
cochlear implants talking on the phone. That’s when I thought, oh well,
it might work – and if it doesn’t, I havent lost anything.
After I was booked in for this surgery, I started this blog because I
thought everyone would think that an implant was a miracle cure, and
think I would be ‘fixed’ once I had it, and I knew it wasn’t going to
--
was what it was going to be like.
Perhaps my optimism about the implant has come from the fact that I
really didn’t expect it to be that good.
--
friends the other night in a pub in Perth. We were discussing each
other’s cochlear implants (there were three of us there who had just
recently had one in the past year.)
--
It was not really blog mention worthy.
So, what other things suck about cochlear implants? because I really
have been too complimentary to them, haven’t I?
--
guaranteed to work as well as the first one, because removing the
implant damages in the inner structure of the ear, i.e. the
cochlea. So that is something that is in the back of my mind a lot
--
Sometimes I can hear TV, other times I can’t. It’s not consistent.
As for Cochlear Ltd being the best cochlear implant company, I don’t
know about that anymore. I mainly support them because they are
--
From the research I have done, it sounds like Med-El would be a good
cochlear implant – it apparently has a slimmer electrode, which goes
deeper into the cochlea, and gives you more spectrum of sound, and
therefore makes speech and sound more natural.
I am seriously considering getting a Med-El for my second implant.
But who knows!
So there you go… And what’s the answer to the million dollar question?
Is the cochlear implant really that good? Well, the answer is …. for
ome, yes. For others, no.  It’s as simple as that.
Everyone’s different, and that is probably the most frustrating thing
about a cochlear implant ever. There is absolutely no guarantee about
how it’s going to work.
--
It’s scary.
And that’s why whenever you meet someone who’s had a cochlear implant,
or the parent of a child with an implant (because they’ve had to make
the same decision!) you should think about the difficult decision they
--
October 14, 2009
Using the telephone with a cochlear implant
Posted by Kate under cochlear implant, deaf, hearing loss, Living with
deafness | Tags: after switch on, cochlear implant, hearing aids |
This is an interesting one.
--
find that I can’t always hear what people are saying really clearly. No
matter what program on the implant I use, it’s not always clear. Some
days I can hear, other days I can’t. Some people I can hear, other
--
way deaf people use the telephone, and therefore communicate.
It’s also brilliant for practicing listening with my cochlear implant.
If you are interested in reading more about captioned telephony in
--
profoundly deaf. In 2009, at age 29, I started this blog about
getting my first cochlear implant. More.
Implant’
uicide January 6, 2010
--
About me advocacy work after switch on audiologist audiology
captioning cochlea hair cells cochlear implant cochlear implant
urgery cost of cochlear implants deafness ENT Surgery flying with
cochlear implants government support for cochlear implants hearing
aids recovery surgeons switch on t-switch telecoil
--
Follow
Follow “Kate's Cochlear Implant”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Feed I look so I can hear.... » Cochlear implants Comments Feed
alternate alternate I look so I can hear.... WordPress.com
--
__________________________________________________________________
Cochlear implants
NEWSFLASH: A new site is available at www.cochlearimplantHELP.com with
everything you ever wanted to know about cochlear implants!
MY HEARING JOURNEY – My personal learning curve, jumping from hearing
aids to cochlear implants
I discovered during my cochlear implant journey that the medic team
don’t give you a lot of information, just some general ballpark
end-user results and info on the implantation process. Once I started
digging, I discovered a whole lot of stuff which enabled me to make an
--
life, I want it to be as effective as possible. Hopefully, the
information here will help those considering a cochlear implant to make
an informed decision too.
It’s important to remember that a cochlear implant will not give you
normal hearing. However, it will give you better hearing than with
--
process. Some will do well within a few months; others, particularly
those born deaf, can take much longer. Many cochlear implant users
report ongoing improvements for years after activation.
--
CHOOSING A BRAND – what you need to know
Having a cochlear implant implanted isn’t Plug ‘n Play. It’s like a
computer – Garbage In, Garbage Out. You will need to work with the
cochlear implant to help it along, and retrain your brain to recognise
the new sounds. So, as well as keeping your expectations low, you need
to do some rehabilitation work to get the most out of your implant.
REHABILITATION – resources to help you get the most out of your
cochlear implant
WHAT IT SOUNDS LIKE THROUGH A COCHLEAR IMPLANT
Be aware that if you listen to these links through your hearing aids,
you will be listening to sounds processed twice, once through your
hearing aid, and again through a cochlear implant simulation. So OF
COURSE it’s going to sound screwy. I’d suggest asking a hearing friend
--
TINNITUS
Sometimes this goes away with a cochlear implant, sometimes it doesn’t.
Roll the dice and see …
COCHLEAR IMPLANT OPERATION
This is a very informative video as the surgeon comments on the surgery
and cochlear implants throughout. Well worth a watch in my opinion as
it you get the explanation along with it. (After the jump, click on
--
queamish!
Video of a cochlear implant operation
Tips on managing the hospital stay and operation.
Should you have a meningitis vaccine? Read about Kathleen.
COST OF COCHLEAR IMPLANTS
SOECIC 2010 charges document – Southampton UK
Healthcare Blue Book – USA
Global Cochlear Implant – obtain cheaper implants abroad
THE FUTURE FOR COCHLEAR IMPLANTS
Cochlear implants : Where we are and where we’re going – a Powerpoint
lideshow by Amber M. Gardner, Ph.D., CCC-A University of Virginia
Health System, which offers a fascinating look at the progress of
cochlear implants with photos that will make your hair stand on end!
There were some very brave pioneers and we are eternally grateful to
them.
Cochlear implant hybrids (2006)
Totally implantable cochlear implants for middle ear deafness. A paper
was presented, The development of a tympanic membrane sensor for a
totally implantable cochlear implant or hearing aid, (1997) but as yet,
nothing has been developed from this. However, see this article by
--
explanation of their system at Mimicking the ear.
Considerations for design of future cochlear implant electrode arrays
(2008)
The Neurelec Digisonic SP binaural cochlear implant moves away from
bilateral implantation and allows the wearer to hear in stereo with one
processor and two microphones. UK news item (2010).
NICE guidance TA166: Cochlear implants for severe to profound deafness
in children and adults (Updated 2011)
USEFUL LINKS
Hearing Journey – the largest Cochlear Implant forum : the best place
to meet cochlear implant users and ask for friendly advice. All brands
are welcome however more technical advice can only be given for
Advanced Bionics.
Bionic Ear Association – Join the cochlear implant community, connect
to a mentor, use online rehabilitation tools
--
Cochlear – Nucleus CI community & Advocacy Programme
British CI Group – Find your local cochlear implant centre in the UK
National CI Users Association – Find your local cochlear implant
upport group and information on cochlear implants
UK Cochlear Implant Users Group on Yahoo
Case studies – read about cochlear implant user experiences
CI Theory – Optimize cochlear implant performance, downloads
NHS – Annual Evidence Update on Hearing Disorders
NICE – Cochlear implant guidance
Deafness Research UK – Cochlear Implant Research
Interview with Professor Graeme Clark
Comparison of bimodal and bilateral cochlear implant users on speech
recognition
FAQ – Air travel with a cochlear implant
Love playing sports, or working in construction? Here’s my article on
helmets for cochlear implant users, which is continually updated with
new resources.
Photographs of inner ear anatomy and cochlear implantation (Source: UT
Southwestern)
If you’re technically-minded and want a deeper look at cochlear
implants, check out this book: Programming Cochlear Implants
MAUDE (Manufacturer and User Facility Device Experience) – FDA database
of reported cochlear implant problems. Open the Product Class drop-down
list, and choose ‘Implant, Cochlear.’ Choose the results per page at
the bottom and date range. You will be able to see how many problems
--
Hi Tina,
Holy smokes, you have done a lot of research on implants! I’m an
engineer, and didn’t have nearly the amount of information you
have available to you when I received my first implant.
You will find a lot of personal stories on Hearing Journey, and
--
hi,
i had a CI meeting and i was interested in having the implant
but did not like the idea of having an big hearing over my ear
--
Bryan (19:06:25) :
they do have an invisible Cochlear Implant that implants inside
your head Nicky with batteries and no outside parts, But its
uper expensive!! like $30,000 dollars! :-O its called the
“Esteem Hearing Implant” & you have to have the batteries
changed surgically every 10 years.
--
Bryan (14:52:21) :
actually regular cochlear implants cost more between 50,000 and
up so yeah.. I just had to do a little research so not bad for
the invisible Esteem Hearing implant by Envoy. I contacted them
and they send me a nice free info package by mail with a DVD
--
amantha (12:51:02) :
can you wear cochlear implant with wet hair
Tina (17:34:37) :
--
quite this breadth of information at my fingertipse when I was
first implanted. You are quite a remarkable researcher !
Dr.V. (See you on HJ)
--
Dan Schwartz (03:08:37) :
Michelle, I’m not sure if your son has received his implant yet;
but the warranties on the implanted electronics (at least here
in the US) is 3 years for Cochlear, five years for MedEl, and 10
--
SteveHammond (19:34:06) :
The internal implant is 10 years warranty with all 3 companies.
How you get your numbers Dan ?
--
doing the right thing right now– you’re doing your research. I
encourage you to personally meet cochlear implant users and ask
them about what they like about their brand.
I am a Cochlear user and I’ve been with them since I was 9 years
old, so that’s 18 years now. I got my second implant 2 years
ago. They are the oldest company and I can say the quality is
--
because these therapists will help your son learn to use what
hearing he has and using the most of his cochlear implant to
improve his speech and listening skills.
--
There’s just no way anyone can hear the way a person with a
cochlear implant can. In fact, that’s why we have mapping. Every
cochlear implant user hears differently from another one. I can
hear all the original sentences with clarity with my Nucleus 22
--
in my map.
Don’t be afraid. This cochlear implant technology is the
greatest gift you will ever give your child. I promise you.
--
I will be writing a blog post on water resistance of cochlear
implants as there is a lot of confusion on this issue. If a
Cochlear CI-user damages their CI through water, they will void
--
@Funnyoldlife regarding water resistance of Cochlear’s cochlear
implants, there is a difference between a water resistant device
and a waterproof device. You can’t go swimming or take a shower
--
device and the Nucleus 24 device which is the first
water-resistant cochlear implant. My Nucleus 22 would degrade in
ound quality much more quickly so I had to send it in for
--
John
implanty zębów (01:28:20) :
Super text, I will add this blog to my favorites.
--
Hi All,
I am planning cochlear implant for my sister. She has sever to
profound hearing loss. Her age is 20. She has an excelent IQ.
--
Hi Richa
Are you looking at a hearing aid or a cochlear implant?
If you want a cochlear implant, there are 4 brands. You can read
the research I have done on my page about the brands at Choosing
a Brand. Alternatively, you can check out Sounding Board or
peak to a cochlear implant BEA mentor at Connect to Mentor (UK)
or Connect to Mentor (USA).
--
Can some one guide about best practices in speech therapy for a
cochealer implant patient?
and can some one suggest how much improvement can we expect in
--
Hi Richa,
Congratulations on your sister’s new implant!
This is a very exciting time… and also a very scary time because
there are so many unknowns. I’ll share my story. I was born with
a profound hearing loss and was implanted at age 9, and I’ve
been using the implant for 18 years, and recently got a second
one on my other ear. It has been the greatest gift in life.
--
would recommend for your sister, so that she can make the most
use of her cochlear implant.
Can you provide a little more background regarding your sister’s
--
accepted in the deaf community (here is a fantastic blog
charting the jump from hearing aids to cochlear implants).
Several deaf people I know recently […]
--
Angela (05:52:16) :
I have nucleus 5 I had implant from april 7,2010 and had for a
year now and I am loving it everybit up til June 2011 got
--
my son is 12 year old i am from pakistan and he is dam and daf
and i need echo plant sergeory cochlear implant plz gide me and
hallp me
--
for him, once he his a resident of the UK you should bring him
to the Manchester Cochlear Implantation Center, there you will
find a possible solution to his problem..
--
You might also want to check out the new website
http://www.cochlearimplanthelp.com and the shopping guide for
cochlear implants there.
20 09 2012
--
Glasses (19:07:30) :
[…] 16.Cochlear implants « I look so I can hear…. This is a very
informative video as the surgeon comments on the surgery and
cochlear implants throughout. Well worth a watch in my opinion
as it you get the …
https://funnyoldlife.wordpress.com/cochlear-implants/ […]
11 11 2012
--
I have asked friends who were hearing then went deaf and got a
cochlear implant (or two). They say the sound is mostly the
ame. There are a few musical notes which are not quite the same
--
likely not to have done as much rehabilitation as those who say
the sound is the same. The capability of the cochlear implant to
give a very good replication of sound is possible with today’s
technology – I would recommend looking at the Shopping Guide and
comparing the ability of each implant to process sound. Your
brain will do the rest.
--
part (16:08:03) :
If one person receives cochlear implant , how much distance a
person can hear the sound effectively
--
I have been research is there any massages therapy for cochlear
implant ? I have it since I was 6 now I’m soon 30s.
Hope hear u soon.
--
I just wondering if anyone had massage at head area where
cochlear implant at. Or any information for massage therapy
chools that study about cochlear pains or sores try to erased
--
massage. More people use cochlear they need more massage therapy
for that. Have u ever touch Ur head where cochlear implant at u
feel different it something.
--
Congratulations on starting your CI journey. Please make sure
you check the latest, and unbiased, cochlear implant comparison
chart at http://cochlearimplanthelp.com/
I would be interested to know how you made your choice. A lot of
--
I´m on my way and doing my due dilligence^^, my head is feeling
like a steam engine. the cochlearimplanthelp.com site is giving
me alot of information, but of course a lot of questions too.
In my understanding so far it is basically important, that the
part wich are implanted are the best, cause you can´t change
without another surgery. All outer head parts could be changed
--
tay inside your head for a very, very long time. Your software
and processor can easily be upgraded, but the implanted hardware
is only replaced when it fails or you have an explantation for
--
The most up-to-date and comprehensive comparison chart for the
major cochlear implant brands is at
http://cochlearimplanthelp.com/cochlear-implant-comparison-chart
/
THere is a good explanation of electrodes and channels at
http://cochlearimplanthelp.com/journey/choosing-a-cochlear-impla
nt/electrodes-and-channels/ You are correct in saying that
--
him.
He’s had his first implant for 12 years, is now sitting in front
of the TV with only his new implant processor on (newly
implanted ear), watching with GOOD closed captioning. He says he
hears patterns right now, softly. When both are on he hears kind
--
Julie Ladeira (16:28:16) :
Does anybody have experience with hybrid cochlear implants?
26 09 2013
--
hearing and had the ability to listen to wonderful music. I’m
also 59. So, an implant that lasts 20 years is likely beyond my
lifespan based on family history.
--
Amit Soni (10:32:36) :
I am planning MED-EL opus 2 bilateral cochlear implant for my
2.6 yrs old daughter. She loves water activity more than
anything, so in future, I will have to go with Waterproof
upgradation. Is MED-EL planning for waterproof implant in
future? or I shall go with Advance Bionics which already has
--
finalized which is 10th Oct. and I will have to finalize the
implant before 3rd Oct.
4 10 2013
Umair (11:50:11) :
My dad will have his first implant on 14th of October. I did lot
of research on the different devices available and which should
--
recognition. I checked comparison charts many times, I read all
the reviews. All messages, all videos on different implants were
checked. From the charts it looked like Med-El has better
--
go with Advanced Bionics new processor Naida ClQ70 with
mid-scala implant. To order the implant I met with my dads
audiologist. She’s helping patients and programming these
--
mainstreamed in 10th grade now, with no FM system, only using
his cochlear implants.
With the implant company now under the hearing aide company, the
bluetooth integration is wonderful, too.
--
the retraining of the auditory sections in the brain after the
implant as this type of retraining therapy does have quite a
good success rate with tinnitus sufferers.
--
Has anyone heard of repeated failures of Cochlear’s CI512? I
went through the fiasco of explant and reimplant in August of
2011 due to intermittent failures of a 3-month old implant. I
was reimplanted with another CI512 two weeks prior to Cochlear’s
recall (and before root cause of the failure had been
--
Thanks for this blog.. I appreciate the insight you’ve provided
for someone who is deciding on a cochlear implant… I am
bilaterally implanted myself with the Medel. I’ve been using
their new Opus2 processor on one ear (I can’t wear bilateral at
--
Terri (03:41:16) :
I am trying to figure out how my father will do with an implant,
and learning to hear all over again, for he has dementia and is
--
http://t.co/74rLuZct1j 6 months ago
cochlearimplantHELP
An comprehensive, unbiased examination of the cochlear implant journey,
for users and would-be recipients. cochlearimplantHELP
[127469310608676.1388.1000192506.png]
--
telephony captions cinema ClearVoice cochlear Cochlear Americas
Cochlear implant Communication Deaf deaf awareness deafness disability
discrimination DLA drink education electrodes film fire food Freedom
cochlear implant HELP » Should I even get an implant? Comments Feed
alternate alternate cochlear implant HELP WordPress.com

cochlear implant HELP
Search ____________________ Search
--
Skip to primary content
Should I even get an implant?
Listen to stories of families who have chosen to get an implant or two
for their child.
In this video, parents of children with cochlear implants share their
experiences before and after implantation.
IFRAME:
--
And here are the results of several children who are successful users
of cochlear implants.
http://www.youtube.com/embed/v1TA_AbhqA8?version=3&rel=1&fs=1&autohide=
--
MyFreeCopyright.com Registered & Protected
© 2016 CochlearImplantHELP
Locations of visitors to this page
activation Advanced Bionics aLOKSAK App Aqua+ Aqua Accessory AquaCase
AquaMic audiologist Australia bilateral bilateral implants bionic Blake
Wilson Cedric Navarro CE Mark CIWear cochlear cochlear implant cochlear
implants CP900 Cyber Monday discount electrode array executive FDA FDA
approval FDA approved Gerry Adams Health Canada hearing aid House Ear
--
Q90 Neptune Neurelec new processor Nucleus 5 Nucleus 6 Pakistan
pediatric cochlear implant Phonak processor rehabilitation review RONDO
Sinn Féin SONNET Sonova swim swim hat synchrony T-Comm T-mic Tracey
--
The Twenty Eleven Theme. | Blog at WordPress.com.
Follow “cochlear implant HELP”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Blog » Selecting a Cochlear Implant Surgeon Comments Feed HIA’s
MarkeTrak IX Elegantly Smashed to Pieces by Amyn Amlani
--
Twitter Icon 1727 Followers Facebook Icon 0 Fans
Selecting a Cochlear Implant Surgeon
June 11, 2015, 85 Comments
--
October 16, 2015, 4 Comments
featured hearing aids GN Resound Advanced Bionics cochlear implant HLAA
HLAA Convention Auditory Neuropathy Spectrum Disorder Sam Lybarger
Costco Siemens John Niparko hearing loss Hearing Loss Ass'n of America
FM Assistive Devices Device Failure Cochlear Implant Circuit Failure
Investigation Hearing Aid Telecoils Central Auditory Processing
--
Hearing Loss Association of America Pat Kricos Sam Trychin ASHA AAA IHS
cochlear implants Christie Nudelman Martha Jones MS CCC-SLP classroom
acoustics Donna Sorkin Williams Sound Dr. Catherine Palmer Brenda
--
Phonak Inspiro Phonak DynaMic Laurel Christensen Reliability Cochlear
Implant — Tags: Advanced Bionics Sonova Jennifer Raulie Linda Luallen
Phil Ives AB 2010 Recall AB January 2011 Layoffs Sarah Mosher Noisy
--
International Loop Conference Bluetooth with hearing aids Derek M.
Houston cochlear implant speech recognition Riley Hospital for Children
Indiana University Acoustical Society of America infant cognition deaf
--
Wifi CapTel WiFi MAC address filtering MAC address whitelist
You are here: Home / Advanced Bionics / Selecting a Cochlear Implant
Surgeon
Advanced Bionics, Auditory Neuropathy Spectrum Disorder, Cochlear,
Cochlear Implant, Jace Wolfe PhD, John Niparko, Kickbacks, Kickbacks,
Med-El, Neurotology, Uncategorized 11 Jun 2015
85 Comments
Hiring a cochlear implant surgeon for yourself or your child is just as
important as selecting the right implant manufacturer, as the quality of the
outcome is at stake. Unlike fitting hearing aids where the Best Practices are
--
testing and radiographic imaging were edited to clarify terminology. Also,
please see Brief Addenda to Selecting a Cochlear Implant Surgeon for
additional discussion.
--
performing this delicate task. It’s one thing to have a resident
performing the “grunt work” of grinding out the pocket for the implant
package and cutting the mastoid opening without nicking any nerves;
--
Steroid Use on Low-frequency Hearing Preservation After Cochlear
Implantation ^11 by David Haynes MD & his crew at Vanderbilt; and
Effects of CI Electrode Insertion on Tinnitus ^12 by Thomas J Balkany
MD in The Institute for Cochlear Implant Training blog. Although
Balkany talks about how tinnitus can be generated when the basilar
--
brief article breaking out these two articles;
Third, how many implant surgeries per year of each brand does this
urgeon perform? cochlear_duct_cross-section_thumb You want a surgeon
who performs at least 50 implants per year, and at least 25 implants of
your particular brand choice in the last year: Experience pays;
--
electrode that was folded between the 3rd & 4th electrodes during
placement. Because neither the implant was booted up and impedance
checked during surgery, nor was there post-surgery radiography
--
Click to enlarge in a new window
Fifth, it’s mandatory that the implant be booted up in the OR by the
audiologist with a cleaning cycle and an impedance check performed:
--
electrode. What’s more, by not using radiographic imaging the patient
with the improperly placed electrode would need to be reimplanted,
which involves additional trauma to the skin flap, an increased risk of
--
better to be safe than sorry, so make sure you get this in writing;
Eighth, how will the implant electronics package be fastened down to
the skull? It takes the surgeon time to carefully cut the pocket in the
--
the surgeon used a “slip and go” method to reduce the OR time even
further, which allows for movement of the implant package, and more
harmfully puts unnecessary stress and strain on the delicate electrode
--
Tenth, what is guiding the CI brand recommendation by the audiologist
and surgeon? The best ones are comfortable implanting and MAPping all
three major brands, so sometimes financial “considerations” are in
--
“halo effect” from their name and “standing in the community;” so
you’ll do much better by going to a CI center that also implants
adults. As best we can tell, based on numerous off-the-record
--
concentrate on “administrative tasks.” We just found out he’s
implanting again, confirmed by their PR rep, with 15 implant
procedures in the last two weeks alone. Needless to say, we are
--
On choosing a CI brand, The Hearing Blog recommends you focus on the
implant electronics package itself, as that is what will be wired into
your head for the next 20 or so years; and except for the Advanced
--
References:
1. Public review draft of AAMI/CDV-2 CI86, Cochlear implant systems –
Safety, performance and reliability: Association for the
Advancement of Medical Instrumentation, May 21^st, 2015
2. Cochlear Implant Programming: A Global Survey on the State of the
Art (31 authors). The Scientific World Journal Volume 2014 (2014),
--
3. Role of electrode placement as a contributor to variability in
cochlear implant outcomes (Charles C. Finley and Margaret W.
Skinner). Otol Neurotol. 2008 Oct; 29(7): 920–928.
--
8. Wolfe, Jace, and Schafer, Erin C. 2014. Programming Cochlear
Implants 2^nd Edition. San Diego: Plural Publishing. ISBN-13:
978-1-59756-552-3 ISBN-10: 1597565520
9. First Person Report: Cochlear Implant Channel Crossover. The
Hearing Blog, June 1, 2011;
--
11. Impact of Perioperative Oral Steroid Use on Low-frequency Hearing
Preservation After Cochlear Implantation. Sweeney, Alex D.;
Carlson, Matthew L.; Zuniga, M. Geraldine; Bennett, Marc L.; Wanna,
--
12. Effects of CI Electrode Insertion on Tinnitus, by Thomas J Balkany
MD. Institute for Cochlear Implant Training, October 1, 2015
Bootnotes:
A. We give props to Envoy Medical, maker of the troubled Esteem
implanted hearing aid, for tossing out one surgeon from their program,
as this individual, who is also well known in his region as a butcher
CI surgeon, was taking as long as nine hours to implant the hearing
aid. What’s more, this particular surgeon took almost six hours on a
--
minutes), yet still bungled it, rendering her ear completely destroyed
and unimplantable in the process;
B. These gentlemen are also trained electrical engineers, which gives
--
ignal processing involved with these magical devices;
C. These gentlemen also implant Auditory Brainstem Implants (ABI),
which truly is “brain surgery;”
--
June 11, 2015 at 7:55 pm
I was implanted three days ago. I wish I had this to guide my
questions prior to surgery. Now I just hope for best. Reading this
--
your surgeon, specifically on the measured impedance values
after cleaning when the implant was booted up, and the
post-surgical imaging to verify electrode placement.
Also, now that your bandages are off, you should request a
residual hearing test: You received an AB implant which uses a
reloadable stylet, so there is no reason your surgeon should
--
I don’t know how anyone can have knowledge of an each cochlear
implant surgeon’s skill at threading a electrical array into a
cochlea. I wish you would share that with us. You indicate
--
June 13, 2015 at 8:40 pm
Please don’t be scared. My daughter was implanted 12 years ago and
has had no issues. It’s been a tremendous miracle :) I wouldn’t
--
I find your opinion, which is what it is, on pediatric hospital
implant centers as totally off base. My son was implanted at 4 and
we had the best surgeon (who isn’t even on your list – Thomas
--
hocked that I was not personally informed of his retirement.
He implanted my daughter over 19 years ago. I should have been
the first on the list for his retirement party.
--
While I feel that this article was intended to help deaf and
hard-of-hearing folks in making a decision about cochlear implants,
I am a bit disappointed when I saw that you made worldly
--
When it comes to make a informed decisions regarding choosing
cochlear implants and surgeons. I cannot ask for a better staff and
teams at all children’s! Dr. Peter Orebello is the best surgeon,
--
My son is a patient at All Children’s in St. Pete also he is a
Medicaid recipient. He was implanted at 15 months of age. He
receives the best care we could have ever imagined. Our audiologist
--
referred our mutual friend Regina from Sarasota to him for
Gianna’s implants.
I’ll also reply to you privately on Facebook messenger.
--
June 12, 2015 at 6:46 pm
My daughter had her right side cochlear implant at 26 months of
age, her left side done when she was 7 years old. She is now 16
years old. Thus, we have been around cochlear implants for many
years. We have lived in 4 different states since she was diagnosed.
--
go and talk to recipients and parents of recipients in person. AG
Bell, Minutman Implant, Hands and Voices, etc. etc.
Second, I would definitely talk to the different cochlear companies
--
furthered my research for what was best for kid for her second
implant.
When our daughter was first implanted, AB had a serious issue with
cases of meningitis. I believe all of the implants slightly
increase the risk of meningitis. Therefore, it is important for
--
through its buyout. I also considered financial history of the
company. Having the best equipment at the time of implant, but the
company goes under, is not a situation I would want my child to be
--
comfortable going with a Children’s Hospital. Once the child is
implanted, the hard work starts. I believe it is crucial to the
uccess of the child and their implant to have the best pediatric
audiologist possible. The speech and listening therapy is also
--
As for the CI manufacturers’ financial stability, in fact this
is a big factor for FDA approval of any implanted device
manufacturer — And has been for decades, such as back in 1985
--
Just to clarify, the FDA is extremely strict with the
implanted medical device industry; and when one is sold it
typically takes at least six months for the FDA to perform
--
comments, a lot of people who have experienced cochlear
implants themselves do NOT agree with him. Please let me know
if I can answer any questions for you!
--
all sorts of problems with her two CI’s; and she had to go to
the above-mentioned Dr Baker in OKC to get reimplanted to get
good results.
--
Yes, I am very familiar with the Dallas CI Community. My
cochlear implant was so successful that it transformed my
life. My experience was 12% with a hearing aid to 92% with the
--
Foundation, which Dr Peters founded to help people who cannot
afford hearing aids and cochlear implants. I worked with Dr
Peters and his CI team for many years prior to relocating to
--
done extensive published research on bilateral cochlear
implantation. He is an excellent, very experienced surgeon.
And he has a heart of gold. I would trust him with my life and
--
I have been scheduled with Sam Levine at the University of MN in
Minneapolis. Sam has been doing implants since they were invented.
Should I be excited or nervous to have him as my surgeon?
--
Interesting article. We had the opportunity to have our daughter
implanted by Dr. Clough Shelton in Utah. He is an excellent surgeon
and does all the things mentioned in this article.
--
For more, please see Role of electrode placement as a
contributor to variability in cochlear implant outcomes
(Charles C. Finley and Margaret W. Skinner). Otol Neurotol.
--
Just saw your info on Dr. Niparko who just performed bilateral
implants on my son. We could not be more thrilled. I called his
office and learned that he has been elected President of USC Care,
--
June 17, 2015 at 8:13 pm
Dr Niparko is implanting again?! That’s the best news we’ve
heard all week! He implanted my former girlfriend in 2003, as
well as implanting a number of friends here in the Delaware
Valley who drove the 90 miles down to Baltimore. In addition,
--
doing the insertion so it is a moot point.
As for the surgeon pulling my leg about the cochlear implant
urgery. I can tell you that this surgeon is highly regarded
--
most humble Dr I have ever met. As my hearing has worsened, he said
to me, “Please, let me implant you and resolve your issues.” I
believed him and let me tell you, it was the best decision of my
life. By old implant standard’s, I had to much residual hearing at
40%. But I was missing more then half of everything said. Dr
Niparko told me the sooner we implant, the faster the results. Not
only did I preserve most of my residual hearing, the placement of
--
word recognition. Now coming up on my 5th month activated, my
hearing in my implanted ear is so great, I am considering going
bilateral. For the record, I did not choose AB but Cochlear. It
--
a bad placement, you will struggle. I feel extremely blessed to
have Dr Niparko for a surgeon and his vast knowledge of implantable
device’s. USC was very smart in hiring him, he has raised the bar
--
ReSound & Cochlear systems last year at this link. Whether you
choose to use an Enzo or not for your non-implanted ear, we
recommend purchasing accessories which are compatible with it,
--
Choose AB, MedEl or Cochlear… it’s all rubish if you get
implanted for any other reason then to be able to continue to
communicate with the world. Some will hear Music, Some will
truggle with Music, if you got implanted with the thought
that you will hear music again like you did with your regular
--
July 27, 2015 at 3:12 pm
I am considering a cochlear implant. What information do you have
about Dr. Rick Friedman at USC-Keck?
--
Our 29 year old daughter has profound hearing loss and the ENT
recommended that she receive a cochlear implant.
Do you have a recommendation for someone to see in the Phoenix
--
malpractice issue with the kinked electrode array? I’m being
implanted next week in Michigan, and it would be good to know…
My surgeon is Dr. Eleanor Chan at the Michigan Ear Institute – do
--
• Impact of Perioperative Oral Steroid Use on Low-frequency
Hearing Preservation After Cochlear Implantation by a group at
Vanderbilt.
--
heard good things about them as well.
Our current plan was to implant with Brian Dunham at CHOP and
programming by Melissa Ferrello.
My husband and I are professional musicians and am curious if you
have input on the best implant or programming for musical access,
pecifically pitch perception.
--
discussed, he tries for residual hearing preservation
As for brand, we recommend the Advanced Bionics implants, as
there’s a new 1024-channel stim for music being developed
which will run on the HiRes 90k implant. Also, although the
externals are not as important as the implant circuit, we
really like the Phonak processors; and as we recently
--
and will be getting much better mid-to-late next year.
The Med-El i100 is a decent implant, but although twice as
fast as the Nucleus CI522 and with the electrodes spaced far
--
November 30, 2015 at 6:57 pm
It looks like Jefferson only implants adults currently.
December 1, 2015 at 6:56 pm
--
in Atlanta. One of my longtime patients who still had
ignificant high frequency hearing was just implanted a few
weeks ago (I’ll not name the surgeon), and even though the
--
My 89 year old mother just had a consult with an audiologist in
Cincinnati about the possibility of a cochlear implant…she’s been
totally deaf in one ear for decades, and is progressively losing
--
dwarves don’t tolerate general anesthesia well): He said he’s
implanted under a local for a couple patients in their 90’s,
November 19, 2015 at 11:04 pm
--
audiologist do the fine tuning post op, or do I need to return
to the site where the implant was done?
November 29, 2015 at 11:17 pm
Unfortunately, Dr Dana Suskind at UC/Comer Children’s only
implants pediatric patients. If you get implanted in another
city, then Yes, you can be MAPped locally; however switch-on
(1st stim) and the first couple of MAPpings would be where you
were implanted, especially if there are any “issues.”
25.
--
This is incredibly helpful! Thank you! Do you have any experience
with Colorado implant surgeons? We have been referred to Dr.
Kelsall and Dr. Feehs in Englewood. I would love an outsiders
--
Dan, thank you for your excellent blog post on selecting a cochlear
implant surgeon. I am 53 years old, have worn hearing aids
bilaterally for most of my life, and am considering a CI. There is
helpdesk    donate
From hearing aids to cochlear implant
A guest blog by Kirsteen Allison
Kirsteen Allison blogs about her cochlear implant From hearing aids to
cochlear implant is a guest blog by Kirsteen Allison.
Kirsteen is a working mum in Scotland writing about her cochlear
implant and experiences of deafness 2012/2013.
Watch a short video of Kirsteen at switch on.
From hearing aids to cochlear implant RSS Feed
One year on
--
But its still a big improvement!
I had another check up at the Cochlear Implant Centre where I underwent
the same tests as before - watching a video with and without sound. The
--
dropped. I was told this was because I was relying more on hearing than
lipreading and this is to be expected with cochlear implants.
I'm really pleased with my results!
I also had my hearing aid in my non implanted ear adjusted although the
ound will never be as good as I want it to be. I would still love a
econd implant and be bi-lateral but I just have to wait and hope that
things change in the near future!
--
'focusing' on hearing something, if that makes sense.
I think next time I visit the cochlear implant centre, I'll ask for
advice and help with noisy situations. On my last visit, I had two of
--
My updates are less frequent now, sorry everyone, but that's because
I've been busy and also because my appointments at the cochlear implant
centre are decreasing so I haven't had much to report. I get check ups
--
hearing in that ear than to go without. Also if I were ever to get a
econd implant, the transition would be easier if I have spent some
time being bimodal (which means using a cocglear implant and hearing
aid together).
Speaking of a second implant, I spoke with the head of centre at my
appointment. I explained I really wanted a second implant and asked if
there was any way of making this possible. However the centre said I do
--
I hope to be able to share my experiences here once I'm matched, so
that my blog will be an interesting mix of cochlear implants and
hearing dogs!
--
christmas etc so apologies for the lack of updates.
At the end of November, my cochlear implant centre advised me to
reintroduce a hearing aid into my non implanted ear. I wore it for a
month before I had to stop wearing it.
I really hated the difference in sound between the cochlear implant and
the hearing aid. The sound is not balanced. The sound coming into the
--
Obviously the hearing aid cannot give sound as good as the cochlear
implant but I was surprised by how quiet and poor the sound was,
considering I wore hearing aids for 25 years pre implantation. I could
not turn it up any louder.
--
I was taking steps backwards rather than forwards on my journey to
better hearing. I felt I did better with the cochlear implant alone so
I stopped wearing the hearing aid.
My audiologist did say that she did not want my brain to work for the
hearing aid over the cochlear implant so therefore she would set the
hearing aid a little lower. I will see when I return to the centre if
--
carry on without it.
Ideally I would like two cochlear implants so the sound is 'equal' in
both ears but a second implantation (for adults) is dependent on
funding and circumstances such as additional disabilities. I hope one
day this changes!
As for the current cochlear implant, I'm hearing more things all the
time. Popcorn popping at the cinema and being able to follow the whole
--
On this, you can see where I was back in May when I underwent all the
assessments for a cochlear implant. You can also see where I am now. A
big improvement, don't you think?
tests pre and post cochlear implants
I reckon this is proof more than anything that I made the right
decision to have a cochlear implant and I hope it offers others
considering an implant some reassurance that it is indeed worthwhile. I
can hear so much now - fire alarms, telephones ringing, music playing
--
I would be able to cope better in a college environment with the
implant. I'm also exercising more - again I'd avoid exercise classes
because of the fear I wouldn't understand the instructions and go the
--
I am due back at the hospital to reintroduce my hearing aid into my
right (non implanted) ear. I'm a bit unsure about this as my surgeon
told me many implantees find they do not like wearing a hearing aid in
their 'other' ear as the sounds are conflicting and confusing.
Then again, some implantees do fine with a hearing aid and a cochlear
implant together. I'm not sure how I will feel but I am very conscious
of the lack of sound coming into that ear so I'm keen to try it and see
--
I also saw Skyfall twice. Skyfall is the first film I've seen post
implant. Previously I would go to a film and either spend the majority
of it going "what did he say?", "why is she doing that?" or get the
--
longer. I've adjusted really well, in fact sometimes I forget I only
have a cochlear implant in one ear!
It's improving all the time. I can hear music playing when I go to the
--
and give me a very quick test. The audiogram showed my hearing with
hearing aids compared with my 'new' hearing with my cochlear implant.
There's been a HUGE improvement in just 4 weeks. I am hearing things
--
gone, so yippee!
I returned to the cochlear implant centre six days after switch on and
I was in quite a bad mood. The beeping and squeaking was driving me
--
There are four programmes in total. The other two programmes with my
implant are 'focus' and 'music'. I think these are more or less self
explanatory. I will not receive these programmes until later although I
--
Hearing Link had given me. The physicist (the guy who put the 'electric
drill' through my ears a while back!) set the cochlear implant up. He
explained he would first go through 22 channels and I would hear
--
began to sound a bit more normal. I wasn't aware there were 22 channels
Then he told me he would switch the implant on and I would hear pretty
much everything. Wow, what a lot of noise! I clutched my hands to my
--
it will never start to make sense unless I bear with it.
I was given two programmes on my Cochlear Implant to start with -
programmes one and two. I'm currently on programme one and I've to
--
when I do. I'm getting rather beeped off!
I go back to the Cochlear Implant Centre next week to report back and
get some more adjustments. I will have to return several times in my
--
28 August 2012
Here's me talking about my implant - after surgery but before switch
on.
--
the mornings.
Kirsteen's implant scar - after 1 day When I washed my hair, I made
ure I had someone to help me. I put cotton wool in my ear and tilted
--
On the ward, I had visits from the anaethesist, a lady from the
cochlear implant centre and my surgeon. The anaethesist explained the
process of going to sleep and checked if I had any allergies etc. As I
had anaethestic previously with appendicitis, I knew what to expect.
The lady from the cochlear implant centre brought instruction manuals
for my Cochlear speech processor and remote control for me to read
--
information she gave me I already knew through undertaking research and
peaking to other implantees. I told her all about my blog and she took
a note of it, so hello if you are reading!
--
into a funny hairstyle. I'm so vain, he laughed at my expression! He
drew an arrow on my neck to indicate which ear would be implanted and
asked me to sign a consent form. I asked if the implant would be 'high
up' on my head but he reassured me it would be quite low.
--
I will be in hospital for a few days and it will be 4-6 weeks before my
implant is ‘switched on’. I reckon I’ll be very impatient during this
time!
--
was also asked if I smoked and drank. It took about an hour overall.
Why is only one ear implanted?
It's to do both with funding and the N.I.C.E guidelines (which you can
Google). These guidelines advise children should be bilaterally
implanted and adults with certain additional disabilities should be
considered. Cochlear Implants are very expensive. There are several
upport groups easily found via the internet if you need further
--
The rehabilitation process is most likely described on your Cochlear
Implant Centre's website or leaflets that they issue you with. It can
take 9 months to a year before you are receiving the full benefits of
the implant. It will not restore full hearing and there will be several
appointments to adjust your implant to get the sound as best as it can
be for you.
--
effect is only temporary and I was warned it may happen.
My expectations for my implant
16 July 2012
Well, for the implant to be a ‘success’ for me, I would like to be able
to enjoy music again. It's hard to describe how it sounds now with my
--
hearing aids and that it will take a long time to get ‘back to normal’.
I also worry that one cochlear implant will not be enough. Would I need
two? Would I need to use a hearing aid in the other ear?
I asked these questions when at the Cochlear Implant Centre and was
told:
9 months to a year to get the full benefit of a cochlear implant.
additional disabilities. The centre follows the N.I.C.E guidelines.
least 6 months to help me get used to my implant. I was advised
ome people find they do not like it as the two sounds are very
different. Some people on the other hand find it is helpful.
responds differently to the implant.
Information and expectations. Day 2
--
wait being around 9 weeks.
Finally it was back to viewing the cochlear implant and explaining how
it would work. I would receive advice on how to use the speech
--
I had to complete a computer questionnaire where I had to rank where I
thought my hearing would be after my implant on a scale of 1-10. This
was to check my expectations were realistic.
Finally I was able to view the different types of Cochlear Implant. My
centre offers three brands – Cochlear, Advanced Bionics and Med El. I
--
encountered was deaf aware.
Obviously this is where the Cochlear Implant Centre is based so that
explains why they are more deaf aware than other hospitals, but I
--
each attempt sign language with me (which I don’t actually speak). I
thought only the staff in the Cochlear Implant centre would know
this.
--
05 June 2012
I had my assessment days over two days at the Cochlear Implant Centre.
When my appointment letter came through, it offered April, which was a
--
deaf I am. I had never considered myself as a candidate for a Cochlear
Implant and always thought I wouldn’t be ‘deaf enough’ for one. I felt
I was managing okay with the support I already have and with my family
--
consider one and said she would refer me to the ENT consultant. My
hearing loss had progressed to the stage where an implant would be
enormously beneficial. When I met with the ENT consultant, I was still
--
confused and feeling quite emotional and scared. The ENT Consultant’s
words were that an implant would make my hearing ‘much much much
better’.
So that was the start of my journey towards getting a Cochlear Implant.
I will blog soon about my assessment days.
Cochlear Implant Journey - RSS publisher

Clarity Now: My Cochlear Implant Journey
At the age of 9, I was diagnosed with severe hearing loss in both ears.
--
hearing. I FINALLY shared my truth, and made the life changing decision
to get a cochlear implant. My journey began as a quest to hear, but
it's so much more. This is my self-acceptance story. This is my search
for CLARITY.
Showing posts with label cochlear implant. Show all posts
Sunday, February 8, 2015
--
hare of intense frustration. Then there was the introduction of my
cochlear implant in 2012, and the shiny hope attached to it that life
would quickly get better. And then... there was its aftermath with its
--
to achieve better hearing. The time my sister, also living with
progressive hearing loss, pursued a cochlear implant and how her
results differed from mine.
--
I had a lovely reunion with my childhood friends, one who hadn't seen
me since I received the cochlear implant. It's always fun to gather
others' feedback as to how they perceive I am hearing, and I was
--
tranger named Joan. She had found my blog about a month after
receiving a cochlear implant, and was struggling with painful “zapping”
following activation, as if someone was flicking her head each time a
--
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: cochlear implant, cochlear implant results, concealing hearing
loss, Pam Fisher, self acceptance, truth, Vanderbilt University
Cochlear Implant Study
Thursday, May 23, 2013
--
activity in his life.
Recently, I happened to meet a woman through an online cochlear implant
upport group.  The woman is not in the military.  However, she has
--
years old- is she considering treating her hearing with a cochlear
implant.
The reason?  After 40 years of significant hearing loss and straining
--
Posted by Pam Fisher at 7:13 AM 2 comments:
Labels: Aprons in Action, cochlear implant, Home Depot Foundation,
military and hearing loss, Saratoga, Saratoga VET HELP, veteran
--
Simple Summer
This past week, my cochlear implant was re-mapped- AGAIN- and once
more, I'm growing accustomed to different versions of sounds in each of
--
Mellow.  Enjoyable.  Of all of life's activities, THOSE are the types
of experiences I want with my cochlear implant-- the moments that are
eemingly so easy to others.
--
Posted by Pam Fisher at 5:01 PM No comments:
Labels: adirondack, cochlear implant, easier, hearing problems, high
peaks, Lake George, lip reading, remapping, what is cochlear implant
Wednesday, January 23, 2013
--
was by no means a life-changing conversation, but this example is
EXACTLY why I wanted the cochlear implant in the first place.
Being able to call to your child and receive a response is such a
--
damning them, agonizing over what to make out of them.
I'm thinking my cochlear implant journey is my path to a refreshing
glass of lemonade. Cheers!
Posted by Pam Fisher at 4:15 PM 2 comments:
Labels: cochlear, cochlear implant, cochlear implant surgery, event
planning, hearing impairment, hostess, lemonade, motherhood, Pam Fisher
--
Posted by Pam Fisher at 6:39 PM 4 comments:
Labels: baby boy, born deaf, cochlear implant, cochlear implant
urgery, hearing impairment, hearing test, infant hearing screening,
--
understand the world.
I was going on seven months with the cochlear implant, and I miserably
acknowledged that I was still in such an early development stage
--
Posted by Pam Fisher at 6:25 PM 1 comment:
Labels: cochlear implant, cochlear implant surgery, Giving Tuesday,
Glens Falls, North Country Coffee Cafe, OBrien Insurance, Pam Fisher,
--
Posted by Pam Fisher at 5:19 AM No comments:
Labels: Acceptance Speech, cochlear implant, Dreams, Foreign Hollywood
Press, Golden Globes, Hearing Impaired, Justin Timberlake, Les
--
At this point, I tell the owner, "Yes, I am hearing impaired but I got
a cochlear implant this year and I'm re-learning to hear.   You don't
need to yell... I may ask you to repeat yourself sometimes, but for the
--
Posted by Pam Fisher at 2:47 PM 6 comments:
Labels: Advocacy, Barbie, cochlear implant, Disability, Fitness Barbie,
Gym, hearing impairment, New Years Resolutions
--
Me and Claire-December 2012.
“Look at my mom’s COCH-LE-AR IMPLANT!” chimed my daughter Claire as she
reached to the right side of my head.  Surrounded by her friends, she
--
hearing so in the spring, I got a surgery to help me hear better.  It’s
called a cochlear implant.”
I then lifted my hair to show them the processor. “I’m still trying to
--
In her signature high pitch singsong voice, she exclaimed, “Look at my
mom’s COCH-LE-AR IMPLANT!”
And you know what I realized?  She’s proud of me.
After years of worrying that my situation would somehow embarrass my
kids, Claire looks at my cochlear implant as some kind of badge of
honor.  In fact, sometimes when I’m not wearing the processor, I catch
--
Posted by Pam Fisher at 2:09 PM 5 comments:
Labels: cochlear implant, cochlear implant surgery, hearing, hearing
impairment, kindergarten, motherhood, Pam Fisher
--
headache.  I’ve had two colds since my surgery, and both times, it
eems my cochlear implant’s functionality is compromised during cold
and flu season.  For me, a simple cold now coexists with head pressure
urrounding my implant site, and more annoyingly, a constant buzzing
that remains ringing through my head regardless of whether I am wearing
the processor or not.  That’s right; even when the implant is OFF, I
till hear noise—a condition common to people with cochlear implants
known as tinnitus, also known as “ringing of the ears.”  Some people
have this without being hearing impaired or having an implant, and it’s
my understanding that deaf or not, it sucks for everyone.
--
And so, I’ve spent the last few weeks pretty pissed off toward my
cochlear implant progress.
Today, however, and in more ways than one, I was lucky to see some
--
understand him… that is, until I slid my processor magnet off my head
to see what he would sound like without the implant.
He wasn’t clear.  And he wasn’t loud.  I had no clue what he was
aying.
It would be a disservice to the implant not to acknowledge its value to
me when I’m attending presentations and lectures.  In that setting, and
--
brightness.  During the 2012 holiday season, my first Christmas with
the implant, I choose for my days to be merry and bright.   I wish the
ame for all of you.
Posted by Pam Fisher at 6:36 PM No comments:
Labels: bright side, Christmas, cochlear implant, cochlear implant
urgery, deaf, diversity, flu season, gratitude, hearing impairment,
--
on the right side of my head.  Now in November, I had reached a plateau
with my cochlear implant progress, and even more embarrassing is that
in recent weeks when I struggle to hear, I have suddenly burst into
--
Posted by Pam Fisher at 6:10 PM 2 comments:
Labels: Ace of Base, All 4 One, cochlear implant, Flanders, Hurricane
Sandy, Pam Fisher, Rico Suave, Rockefeller Center, Rockefeller Center
--
When I started the blog, I wanted to inform my family, friends, and
colleagues of my decision to get a cochlear implant.  I figured it was
easiest to update everyone all at once as social media carried my news
--
proved to be challenging, and as frustrated as I was with the new
cochlear implant, I at least recognized as a writer that my experiences
made for a good story.  I was also generally optimistic.  I figured in
--
connected and whole.
I tend to describe my cochlear implant success based on how well I
communicate in “bigger” milestone events as opposed to everyday
--
unrecognizable noise.  NOT a great hearing weekend.  Then came my first
family vacation with the implant, and the reality that life with a
processor was often inconvenient.  I mourned the loss of natural
--
around me were noticing a difference, saying I was more relaxed and
eemed to understand more than when I was without the implant.
My BIGGEST event of 2012, the one occurring a whole six months
--
And I did.  The wedding was beautiful, the resort was amazing… but it’s
not a complete story if I didn’t admit to the cochlear implant
frustrations.  First, before I even made it to LaGuardia Airport en
--
had never been able to hear in an airport before), but I found it just
as difficult to communicate as it had been in pre-implant life.  I also
found group conversations to be more difficult than I expected.
--
months post-activation is really no different than three months ago.
Sometimes life with the implant is fine, and other times, it’s
annoying.  I remain grateful I can hear the phone ring, but totally
--
Posted by Pam Fisher at 7:43 PM 6 comments:
Labels: best friends, cochlear implant, cochlear implant surgery,
destination wedding, Jamaica, wedding
--
reader....
Me and Claire-December 2012. “Look at my mom’s COCH-LE-AR IMPLANT!”
chimed my daughter Claire as she reached to the right side of ...
profound hearing loss. Currently we are traveling the path of her
hearing journey as she has received her cochlear implants, and we are
continuing to expand her speech and language. We started this blog to
--
hearing journey, and we have hopes that someday it will help another
family facing cochlear implant surgery.
March 10, 2015
--
We have big dreams for Audrena. Wouldn't it be fantastic if she grew up
to become a cochlear implant surgeon? Or the first woman president? No
matter what she chooses to do in life, we are confident that she will
--
appropriately.
The miracle of cochlear implants never ceases to amaze us! Even with
its limitations, the technology has provided Audrena with so much more
--
rough with them. That's why it is SO important to be very conscious of
your child's cochlear implant equipment. We constantly monitor things
because if she is not getting good quality sound, she can't catch up as
--
Labels
CI Circle: for Parents of Children with Cochlear Implants
There was an error in this gadget
He may not perform as well as his hearing peers or even another child
of his age with cochlear implants without Mondini's Malformation, but
he has come a very long way.  There's still work to be done, but we are
--
top a minute and talk about the sense of urgency you feel when your
child's implants might be jeopardized.  You never want to waste a
econd to get your child's ear infection cleared up if it's possible.
--
way, but it was a fleeting thought of how a simple cold can become a
much more serious matter for a child with implants.  I hated that he
had to go through all of this. Again.  And I hate that we will always
--
Of course, we are still praising the miraculous technology of cochlear
implants and Bud has come such a long way.  But as I have been saying
for the past two and a half years on here, there's a lot more work to
--
Evan's Hearing Journey
Erin Toes and her Cochlear Implant Journey
Insights of a mom with two boys with cochlear implants
Topics
letters for luke & notes for noah
Showing posts with label cochlear implants. Show all posts
Monday, April 14, 2014
--
in his L ear and a severe loss in his R ear.  We have gotten hearing
aids, a cochlear implant, started preschool, continued with intense
peech therapy, are learning a new language (ASL) and had another
--
Posted by Kate at 9:31 AM 4 comments
Labels: audiology, cochlear implants, deaf, hard of hearing, hearing
aides, hearing loss, Noah, speech and language
--
his Mom's side (got that?).  As we sat down, the lady behind me said,
"He's has a cochlear implant" about Noah.  I turned around and smiled
and saw the cutest 17 year old girl sitting next to her.  The Mom then
proceeds to tell me, "She is bilaterally implanted".  The girl pulled
back her hair and I saw N5's on her ears.  Noah was overjoyed and kept
--
Posted by Kate at 3:39 PM 1 comments
Labels: CI, cochlear implants, deaf, family, hard of hearing, hearing
aides, hearing loss, Noah
--
Noah and if anyone asks, Luke is quick to jump in with "This is my
brother's cochlear implant processor.  It's held to his head by a
magnet and it helps him hear".  It's so precious.
Posted by Kate at 1:47 PM 0 comments
Labels: audiology, brothers, CI, cochlear implants, hard of hearing,
hearing loss, Lucile Packard, Luke, Noah, sibling of special needs kid,
--
which took the majority of the time.  For those of you not versed in
the CI world, Noah's implant will be gradually turned up over the
course of the next 6 months.  On his CI there are "programs" and he is
--
[photo.JPG]
Noah's Cochlear Implant--with a Finn McMissile cover
Posted by Kate at 11:13 AM 1 comments
Labels: CI, cochlear implants, deaf, genetics, hard of hearing, hearing
loss, Lucile Packard, Noah, Stanford
--
[image+(2).jpeg]
In recovery.  Notice that Curious George also has a cochlear implant!
We waited for another 2 hours in recovery for Noah to wake up.  He was
--
Posted by Kate at 3:05 PM 4 comments
Labels: CI, cochlear implants, deaf, hard of hearing, hearing aides,
hearing loss, Lucile Packard, Noah, speech and language, Stanford,
--
Posted by Kate at 1:53 PM 1 comments
Labels: CI, cochlear implants, deaf, growing up, hard of hearing,
hearing loss, Lucile Packard, Luke, Noah, Stanford, surgery
Cochlear Implant Journey Category Feed Read My Lips WordPress.com

--
Skip to content
Category Archives: My Cochlear Implant Journey
← Older posts
--
Posted on December 1, 2015 | 8 comments
Last week I received a new processor for my cochlear implant. The
processor is the tiny computer that translates sounds in the
environment to a code. The electrodes in my implant use this code to
end a message to my brain that I have heard the sound. I must admit
--
invention for only three years. It seems like a lifetime and I can
hardly remember what life was like before my cochlear implant.
There are still challenges, especially when I can’t read a speaker’s
--
‘life-half-full’ glass. My new processor includes a special receiver
that connects both my hearing aid and implant with the personal FM that
I wear in groups to boost the sound. So I am now hearing in stereo!
--
this time, even more than that first time I experienced music with my
implant at the Symphony, some eighteen months ago. I could hear very
oft sounds distinctly. It’s really quite something.
--
columnists sometime in the future. We’ll see.
And while my implant has improved my life in immeasurable ways, I still
experience trepidation in any waiting room wondering if I will hear my
--
8 Comments
Posted in My Cochlear Implant Journey
More on music and cochlear implants
Posted on December 4, 2014 | 3 comments
Last June I wrote about my success hearing music with my implant. Since
that time I have been trying to explain the difference between hearing
‘normal sounding’ musical sounds and hearing these sounds with a
cochlear implant, to help others understand the enormity of this
milestone.
I had a meeting with my implant rehab therapist earlier this week and
he found this great illustration. (see link below) I want to share it
with you – both those of you who are implant users and those who might
know someone with an implant. I think this is an easy way to understand
what we go through trying to hear music with a cochlear implant,
especially when the implant’s sounds overpower the sounds from the
non-implanted ear.
Some people with cochlear implants never reach the ‘normal’ stage;
others get there fairly quickly. It took me almost two years. My brain
--
very complex sounds.
I now hear the ‘normal’ sounding music with both my implant and my
hearing-aided ear and I am greatly enjoying this newly rediscovered
--
ago. And I think the sound is actually clearer now.
It IS the implant that is making the difference here. A couple of times
during the concert I took off my cochlear implant processor so I could
get a sense of what I was hearing with just my hearing aid alone. It
--
enjoyed performing. The concert last week was another.
I have one more task – feeling confident using my implant on the phone
– and that will take some time yet. But my “cochlear implant
expectation check list” is almost complete, so this will be the final
entry of my cochlear implant journey, almost two years after I received
this amazing device.
--
blog on several occasions about my experiences hearing music with my
implant. I could hear the true notes of simple tunes like Twinkle
Twinkle Little Star with a week or so of practicing but a complex piece
--
when you hear one of the two patterns. Seemed easy enough. Not!
For one thing, the notes I heard with my implant did not always
correspond with the placement of the notes on the screen. I know music.
--
And a PS. I saw a different researcher for my post test. She explained
that cochlear implants are designed for speech, not music and music
involves a totally different signal. There is rhythm, there are
--
7 Comments
My Cochlear Implant Journey: the year that changed everything
Posted on September 17, 2013 | 8 comments
A year ago today my cochlear implant was activated and I began my
journey to hear again. While preparing for this anniversary edition I
read through the early posts and I am amazed at how far I have come. I
had my first annual hearing test with the implant just a week ago to
ee how much I am actually hearing with my implant alone and with my
implant and hearing aid together. Prior to being approved for the
implant two years ago I took a number of tests, most particularly one
that tests your ability to hear sentences over cocktail party noises.
That time I got one right. This time I managed to get about half of
them right with just my implant. That is the proof of the pudding. Now
these tests are in a controlled environment; the speakers enunciate
--
with real life. Still from a success rate of 2% to nearly 50% tells me
that my implant is working pretty well!
During those first few weeks after the implant was activated I
practiced hearing words without reading lips. Now I can manage a
telephone conversation of 30 minutes or more using my implant. Granted,
my conversations are only with people whose voices I can easily
--
the phone ringing from other rooms and other floors in the house just
with my implant alone. Before I received the implant and using only my
hearing aid, I could not hear the phone ring unless I was in the same
room. The same for people knocking on my front door. Pre-implant when I
was expecting someone, such as a repair person or neighbour, I had to
--
During my first year review last week with the audiologist, as she was
testing the implant’s processor I kept hearing a swishing sound. I
thought there was something wrong with the processor so I mentioned it
--
Music has been a major challenge because it is such a complex auditory
process. I could hear individual notes fairly early on with my implant
but not a more intricate piece of music. About six months ago I
listened to the choir at church singing an anthem using just my implant
and did not hear ANY music at all. All I heard were the voices speaking
--
than normal and were similar to the buzzing noise from the day my
implant was activated – just like they were when I first tried to hear
individual musical notes. But I could hear differences in tone and
could tell higher notes from lower. I must admit I did not have a lot
of hope that I could hear music with my implant. I worried when I lose
the hearing in my better ear and would need to rely solely on my
implant, music would be lost to me. Now I know that won’t happen. It
may take another year or even longer, but I will hear music.
There were so many firsts this past year. Some sounds are still robotic
and unclear. The implant is loud and my brain is still working on
filtering out extraneous sounds. At the moment, blasts from a noisy
--
blog about the sound I was most looking forward to hearing once my
implant was working. It was the call of the loon. While I have not been
near a loon to test this out, I have no doubt that I could hear it now.
I have discovered that keeping things in perspective is an important
component of success with cochlear implants. The other day a retired
teacher of the deaf, on learning that I was approaching my first
anniversary with the implant said, “Oh, it is still very new for you.”
I realized that a year is just the beginning and I have many more
--
in two things. First, I slept – a lot! And when you sleep, you don’t
wear any of the external parts of your implant so I wasn’t getting the
usual sound stimulation. And secondly my brain pretty much turned to
--
important lesson for me at this stage of my development with the
implant because the progress I make now is tiny and not always truly
noticeable. So even when I feel I am not moving ahead, I actually am.
--
on by one of my friends, I decided to ‘test’ my ability to hear complex
music with just the implant. To backtrack a bit, last December I tried
this test for the first time. At that stage in my development, I was
--
took out my hearing aid (which does allow me to hear some music) and
just listened with my cochlear implant. There was no musical sound at
all. All I heard was the choir speaking words. It actually reminded me
--
The other day someone asked me what is the best sound I have heard so
far with my implant and what is the worst. This is a very interesting
question and I had to think about my answer.
The challenge I have is that I can hear using my left, non-implanted
ear and a very strong hearing aid. So there are sounds that I hear with
--
and some that I don’t (the beeping sound of a truck backing up). But
new sounds with my implant? Hmm.
It is raining quite hard today. I tend to wear just the processor for
my right implanted ear rather than the processor plus my hearing aid
whenever I can to help my brain practice listening for sounds and I
--
The truth is that there were so many sounds that I did not hear –
either at all or not very well – before my implant that pretty much
every sound now is the best and there are none I can really call the

Sound of Cochlear Implant
Showing posts with label Cochlear Implant. Show all posts
Tuesday, October 5, 2010
--
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: alerting systems, bellman, CI, Cochlear Implant, geemarc
Wednesday, September 30, 2009
--
till emotionally attached to it.
I still expect to wear my Senso, even if I'm 16 months implanted , and
going.
--
Journaled by Vivie at 12:42 AM
Labels: babyworn, braces, CI awareness, Cochlear Implant, Dental,
insurance, Pouch, xray
--
he certainly is welcome here.We also share the love of knowing new CI
implantees , which I do here in Greece.Right now I'm in the proccess of
helping a new candidate take the decision for her implant ( she's going
for Cochlear too ) and helping her with a lot of advice.
--
Journaled by Vivie at 4:46 PM
Labels: babyworn, Cochlear Implant, cracked processor, Rachel Chaikof,
houlder worn, trips
--
I find myself in the position to say..I did choose well with the naming
of that blog.It's fitting.Sound of Cochlear Implant.
It's something so precious , and so simple too in the same time!
--
1 comment: Links to this post
Labels: CI, CI moments, Cochlear Implant, Long Coil, Pouch
Thursday, June 11, 2009
--
both in Greece and abroad , chosen Cochlear , so it couldn't go wrong.
Internal implant had 24 electrodes , and various mapping techniques,
especially for the Freedom implant.
Processor had the option of both , rechargeable , and plain batteries.I
--
ones.I like going green.And the disposable is handy, too.( the
rechargeable I think got out recently , but when I was implanted , it
was out )
--
Plus , it has the child lock.it is advertised so the kids wouldn't play
with it , for kiddos that wear their implant.But I find it useful as I
have little hands getting my implant.I just let them see it for a bit
then put it on my ear again.no need to check anything!Peace of MIND!!!!
--
wasn't inside , I'd buy it , it saved my arse more times than I count.
The only complaint I've had from my implant is that it was heavy at
first ( compared to a hearing aid ) and that the plastic casing that
--
Journaled by Vivie at 2:20 AM
Labels: CI, Cochlear, Cochlear Implant, processor
Older Posts Home
--
magic (1) CI (7) CI art (1) CI awareness (2) CI moments (5) Cochlear
(1) Cochlear Implant (5) coil (1) cracked processor (1) Dental (1) fall
(1) FM system (1) geemarc (1) insurance (1) Long Coil (1) music. (1)
« Previous | Main | Next »
Switching on my hearing - William's cochlear implant story
Comments
--
William with his head bandaged, in a hospital bed
William recovering after implant surgery
[EMBED]
--
November, after many years of thinking about it, he chose to have a
cochlear implant surgically fitted. The device was activated just
before Christmas and since then he has been learning how to interpret
--
hereditary condition I've got - deafness. I chose to have a cochlear
implant.
I went under the knife in December. They cut behind my left ear,
--
improvement in my hearing.
There are lots of reasons I wanted a cochlear implant but chief among
these was a deterioration in the little hearing I had been born with.
--
receding from me.
Cochlear implants electrically stimulate the inner ear to create a
imulation of sound. It's not the same as hearing.
--
The staff at the hospital tried their best to manage my expectations of
what an implant could bring me. They said that the best I could hope
for was to understand speech a little better, and to be able to
--
expectations were spiralling beyond a reasonable level. Perhaps because
of that, the day they activated my implant was horrible.
"The switch on is usually the worst day of most people's lives." The
--
After switching on all the channels and checking they were working,
they sent me home with the implant at a very low volume and with me
wondering if I'd done the right thing. It was the worst day of my life,
--
all sound different to before.
Life with the implant is better than it was with the hearing aid, but
also worse. I'm struggling to understand people as I adjust, and learn
--
a bit easier.
When people talk about a cochlear implant journey, it implies a
destination. I don't think the destination is as important as the
was told that one day I could wake up deaf. It was the hardest news I
had to face. They did not have cochlear implants back then. I had to
learn to “deal” with it.
--
wrong with being White, Black, Latino, Russian, American, Hearing,
PURPLE, etc. Some feel that the Cochlear Implant is Genocide.
Yes, your child is deaf. You can cope, you can deal with it. You can
--
know. And when the time comes when they are old enough to make
decisions of their own . . . they can try this Cochlear Implant. It’s a
big risk and a very big decision to make. We want what’s best for our
--
CIs is very refreshing. It’s not a one-sided issue. Many seek to
implant the person without even knowing why the person is deaf! My
hearing loss is not really a “loss” because I don’t miss it! When I
became deaf there were no such things as cochlear implants. All I had
was a basic hearing-aid and being constructive myself about how to
--
problem with being deaf. Why should they? They are successful while
being deaf so a cochlear implant would not help them at all. My family
has helped a lot. I don’t believe a cochlear implant would take the
place of learning things from my family. I’ve also learned many things
--
to live with their being deaf as I have. Being deaf is being normal in
every sense of the word. No need for anything like a cochlear implant.
The Right to be Deaf
--
tell a deaf child that they are insufficient as they are? No one does.
Yet, many who try to implant them with a cochlear implant don’t realize
this! They try to tell the child that they are not good enough as they
--
they haven’t learned yet that they are not acceptable. I’ve known other
deaf who don’t have an implant and they are not troubled by being deaf.
What they are troubled by is the idea that some want to surgically
--
gamble that I refuse to take.
With this, Deaf culture is misunderstood by those who wish to implant
others. Deaf culture is human beings. Certainly, human beings have a
--
Being deaf doesn’t limit someone as much as misunderstanding it does.
That’s why before any parents try to implant their deaf child I believe
they need to understand that being deaf is only a difference. We can
--
Being deaf only means a different lifestyle and a different way of
learning things. A deaf person doesn’t need a cochlear implant to
urvive or to be successful! Success needs hard work. If a child gets
implanted then their work will not be in achieving success. Their hard
work will go to figuring out how to live and to figure out what’s wrong
with them. There’s NOTHING wrong with them! Then why did they get
implanted? Their parents had a problem with them being deaf! That
problem is not going to go away with the cochlear implant. That problem
will only get worse as the child tries to fit in with the other kids in
--
other kids. Then the child will really be disabled. And that’s the sad
part. But if the child is not implanted then they can be a child and
ee that the world is there for them to do whatever they wish with.
--
Why can’t people just accept us as we are? Why would they want to
change us into what we aren’t? Why would they want to implant deaf?
Some even want to implant all deaf! What has this world come to?
We have not lost the ability to be compassionate! We have not lost the
ability to understand ourselves and others. Then, why would someone
want to implant deaf babies? Why would someone want to implant deaf
kids? Why would someone want to implant deaf teenagers? Why would
omeone want to implant deaf adults?
My gosh! Have we lost the ability to understand? What on earth could a
--
person&#151;of any age&#151;is still two things. They are a human being
and they are themselves. How could implanting someone possibly do
better?
--
I know. If they have a problem with me being deaf then how is
implanting me going to solve that?
Whatever happened to understanding? Why do we have to put mechanics in
--
different? How is being deaf a problem? If someone has a problem with
my being deaf then putting a cochlear implant into me is not going to
help at all!!
--
without CI or HA?
Cochlear Implants can make you become totally deaf after you realize
that CI is not working for you at all. It is too late for any person
--
appropriate for people’s their negative emotions or feelings who have
the right to implant on Deaf children? I think not because it is still
carrying on the old behavior pattern cycles from these people’s own
--
becoming deaf as is. Just give them hearing aid if they like it or not
before Cochlear Implant device because it is totally unfair. You can
assume that they will hear everything as you are expecting them to have
--
If it’s not broken, don’t try to fix it
Hi, you are so right. Cochlear implants are just glorified hearing
aids, but for some one who doesn’t have the capacity to understand
--
now I can truly agree with them. It amazes me to see how badly, how far
parents would go to implant their child. Once, someone even begged for
money to fix their son’s CI. I used to long to be able to hear just so
--
wander for quite a while.
So, parents, please don’t implant your child when they are not old
enough to make their own decisions, and other deaf people (mostly the

IMPLANTEES’ VIEW
Persons who have received cochlear implants, whether voluntarily or
involuntarily, are an invaluable resource in our community. If you are
an implantee, we encourage you to share your story with us. If you are
a deaf person with a currently-functioning implant, what has your
experience been? Has it been good? Bad? If your parents made the choice
--
experience been? And if you’re one of the growing number of deaf people
who have stopped using their implants or have even had them surgically
removed, we’d like to ?read? from you. Please E-mail us at editor (at)
--
Metabolic mess-up
Hello, my name is Daniel Foley and I have been implanted at age 13. It
does nothing but causes problems with me physically. Since I have been
implanted, I noticed that my metabolism slowed down and I gained weigh.
By the time I became 16 years old I weigh almost 300 pounds and I had
--
roof. I really wanted to take the inside part out so bad.
The strange thing is I was supposed to hear things with the implant,
but I never heard one thing and my parents still tried to make me wear
it until I became 18 and now I am almost 20. Now my parents are doing
better. They also told me that my personality without the implant on is
better than with it on. My friends said the same!! I even like myself
--
a student from MSSD (Model Secondary School for the Deaf)
Out from the bubble: enjoying life with an implant
Hello, my name is Betsy Hitzel and I’m 28 years old. I just got my
implant last October 2003, and I’m very happy with it.
The cause of my hearing loss is called Perrault’s Syndrome. I was deaf
--
my own little bubble.
When I heard about the implant I was scared and worried, but the more I
thought about it, I got excited. Now I’m happy I did it. Sounds that
--
outside, even hearing the engine of a car when started, things people
do not think about. So I’m glad I got the implant. I admit I don’t hear
every word people say, but I don’t say “Huh?” all the time now.
I’m hoping I can get the implant in my left ear. I feel whoever
invented the implant, I would like to shake his or hers hand and thank
them for giving me my life back.
--
Anyway I come from a large deaf family and I have a deaf granddaughter.
And I have a cochlear implant my self. I have had mine for about five
years and I am against children having one until they are much, much
--
pain was and he asked me want it pulled out and I said “no!” so I asked
him if he thought it was coming from my cochlear implant as I notice
with certain sounds it would make it ache so I decided to go back to
the place that did my cochlear implant and I explained to the doctor
what I just told you and he was stunned and acted like it was weird but
--
Please do not allow these little ones to have it done also it is hard
for me to get an MRI due to the cochlear implant so theses little ones
may not be able to tell something is wrong. I hope this will help.
--
“The doctors wouldn’t listen”:
an implantee’s nightmare
Hi. My name is Nan Young. [Editors’ note: All names in the following
--
Victoria, Australia, I am profoundly deaf, late-deaf, I lost my hearing
at age 44, I had an implant put in in January 2001 and I had it removed
in April 2002. I would love to be able to tell my story to you, so that
many more can see the problems I had with the implant and also the
trouble I had with the doctors not listening to me, and then leaving me
to fend for myself with not much help from them once the implant was
removed. I would like people to see the other side of the Implant
“Problems” but first I need to see if you get this, so that I can
continue to give my whole story. This I need to do for myself and for
all those thinking of getting the implant, so that one day I may feel
that I have done my best to show the other side of it.
--
have received it and then I can continue with the long story of my
journey with getting hearing from the implant and then going back to No
Hearing again.
--
Victorian Eye and Ear Hospital. (This hospital houses one of the
world’s leading cochlear-implant clinics.) Punctuation and
capitalization have also been regularized. We have responded to Ms.
--
removed. Soon after this, I felt like I had fluid in my head around the
implant area. I spoke to a young doctor (can’t remember his name), who
aid it was impossible to have fluid in that area, and said not to
--
but I was happy, as I could hear something. For the next couple of
weeks I used the implant a lot trying to understand the T.V. and people
talking, I had to go back to the Implant Clinic on a regular basis once
a week, at that time.
--
didn’t. It was this day that I asked Mr. Cash to just please take the
implant out! I didn’t want it in anymore; it was causing me too much
trouble.
--
At my next visit, Kim told me that I was not the only person having
problems with the implant. There were others! When I saw Mr. Cash next,
I asked him about the other people with problems, and I told him Kim
--
a letter, stating how concerned they were for me. This letter also
[had] a list of Management Options that they, the Implant Clinic, would
give me to help. There [were] a number of options for me if I would
--
omewhere for long-term stay to help with the sleep and for them to
check the implant and infections. That was [also] back in May, and it
was now September.
Every time I saw the doctors there was always an excuse. That something
else was wrong, never the implant! And I still asked [them] to please
remove the implant or try and fix it, and also to move the electrodes
up like Dr. Smith said he was going to do. Mr. Cash’s response to this
--
again this was put aside and they, the doctors spoke of what they
wanted! I said that I wanted the implant out, and Dr. Smith said that
it would be too expensive to do that. My brother then asked Dr. Smith,
--
till there were infections in my ear that they didn’t believe.
[On] my next visit to Mr. Cash, I said I wanted the implant taken out.
Again, his response was, even if the implant was taken out, at this
tage he didn’t believe that it would get rid of my problems. He
--
was in the other room asking Kat a lot of questions&#151;things like
“What would you feel like if your mother had the implant removed?” and
“Why had your mother been to see so many other doctors about the ear
--
can. He said that the scan showed a lot of fluid all around the
implant area. I was totally stunned! Fluid? He said yes, but he could
ee no hole that Mr. Cash was talking about.
--
hole and the electrode was pushing through, and the doctor told me that
the implant area was full of FLUID! Now I was told there was nothing?
I went back up to my room and I was too furious, I think, to even cry.
--
nothing?!?” He said he was sorry; he must have made an error when
looking in it. I said “Oh, yeah? Well, I want the implant removed!”
When I said this we were just outside his room, in the hallway, again.
He then told me that having the implant removed was not a consideration
at all!
--
another appointment with Mr. Cash on the 12^tth March at 12.30 p.m.,
hoping that they will agree to remove the implant. If not, I am going
to have to find someone who will.
On the 1st March I went and saw my local G.P., and he said to me to ask
if the implant was pressing on or against the internal carotid artery,
as this could be causing the throbbing in my head.
I am hoping that you may be able to help me get something done on
getting the problems fixed or on getting the implant removed.
Yours sincerely,
--
means, use them.
I really hate to see little kids getting implants but it is their
parent’s decision. I often wonder about the longevity of implants.
I never considered C.I. because it did not have good beginning with
--
I don’t think I would have made it this far
without an implant
Hello, my name is Paige Adams.  I'm sixteen years old and here is my
--
At the age of five, the University of Virginia offered a possible
operation for a cochlear implant. After doing research and listening to
deaf pro-implant and deaf community advocates, my parents decided it
was for the best for me to receive a cochlear implant. After a six-hour
urgery, I had a magnet installed inside my skull on my right side
above my ear. Within a month, I was wearing my cochlear implant to
chool and I could hear things that I had never heard before such as
--
and use it as an advantage for my education and communication skills.
Today, I still wear the same old cochlear implant and I love it!!!!
Even today, I hear something new and it is a learing experience. Also,
--
Algebra (one and two), Geometry, and Precalculus. If I didn’t receive
my cochlear implant, I do not think I would have made this far.
My goals are to graduate high school with an advanced diploma and to go
in the medical/audiological field who work with deaf patiemts and
clients, cochlear-implant advocates, surgeons, speech therapists,
clinicians, and parents. However, as Ryan McCreery’s response shows,
--
interested in learning more about the views of the Deaf Culture and
Community regarding cochlear implantation. As a Pediatric Audiologist,
I work with a vareity of families to help them learn about hearing
--
from the Deaf Community, and do not believe that hearing aids, cochlear
implants or any other form of Audiological Habilitation are a “cure”
for hearing loss.
divergent views of parents of deaf children. If you are a parent of a
deaf child and would like to share your views on cochlear implants,
please E-mail us at editor (at) cochlearwar (dot) com.
The view of a CI parent
I am the mother of a deaf 9-year-old, who was implanted with a CI
approximately 6 months ago. I am interested in Deaf culture and enjoy
--
what area of the body it is used for. Your article makes it sound as
though you should not even consider an implant because of a perceived
risk which might never even happen.
Click on any question to read the answer.
What is your opinion of cochlear implants? Many doctors are calling it
a "revolutionary technology" that is transforming what had been an
isolated group of people, namely the deaf. How do you see the
development in implants?
Do you feel that the mass media has given the CI controversy fair and
--
eliminate deafness?
What bothers you most about implants?
What are some of your concerns about children with CIs?
--
How much person-to person contact have you had with deaf people with
implants?
Do you consider people with CIs part of the Deaf Community?
Aren&#146;t most people with CIs happy about their implants?
Do you have questions about the effectiveness and safety of implants?
Well, they can give implantees antibiotics, right?
If the CI is here to stay, isn&#146;t it a waste of time and energy to
try and fight it?
Those who are in favor of cochlear implants say that implants can make
deaf children and adults hear. But Deaf advocates say that even with an
implant, a deaf person is still deaf. What does that mean?
Even so, doesn&#146;t the CI have the power to bring an isolated,
marginalized group of people into the mainstream of society?
Aren&#146;t implants a good thing for society?
Why are some deaf people so bitterly opposed to implants?
Why do you object to giving implants to deaf children?
Isn&#146;t some hearing better than nothing? Isn&#146;t artificial
--
Aren&#146;t a number of born-deaf or early-deafened children getting
remarkable, even miraculous, results from their implants?
Won&#146;t the implant prevent illiteracy in deaf children?
If the Deaf community is losing the war against childhood CIs, what are
--
Are CIs improving public attitudes towards deaf people?
What&#146;s the real motivation of those who oppose childhood implants?
Do Deaf people oppose CIs because they need to recruit deaf children to
--
What&#146;s been happening with the CI controversy on DeafNotes?
Who are these implant evangelists, anyway?
Illicit promotion? How?
But aren&#146;t the implant corporations interested in reaching out to
your largely deaf readership?
But don&#146;t kids with implants make miraculous progress?
If deaf children can benefit from a CI, why deny them the opportunity?
Why consign them to a childhood of silence?
Aren&#146;t parents who decide to give their deaf kids implants giving
them more communication choices, instead of limiting them to signing
alone?
Are implants a form of child abuse? That&#146;s what Deaf Culturalists
claim. What&#146;s your view?
--
How is ASL going to survive the CI onslaught?
Do kids with cochlear implants identify as deaf or hearing?
Will the Deaf community survive the cochlear implant? Won&#146;t
implants ultimately render it obsolete?
Will the implant destroy Deaf culture?
What&#146;s so special about Deaf Culture? Why should it be studied by
--
Many of us are extremely skeptical about the claims we&#146;ve been
reading in the media and cochlear-implant (CI) promotional literature.
We sometimes suspect that the media plays up the advantages of the CI
while dismissing the disadvantages. We have no quarrel with deaf
teenagers or adults who choose to receive implants. We have profound
reservations about the current trend of implanting deaf infants and
children.
--
journalists that reveals prejudice: e.g., describing the CI as "a cure
for deafness" and the sensory experience of the unimplanted child as "a
world of total silence."
--
coverage of this issue, you often see the doctor making some typically
authoritative comment like "We get much better results with implants
when the children are young. The earlier it&#146;s done, the better the
--
media visibility?
The media loves parents of kids with implants. They certainly get a
izable chunk of the spotlight. It&#146;s hard to resist the sight of
--
the spotlight.
Another thing: in articles about newly-implanted deaf children, you
always read what the adults (the doctors, audiologists, and parents)
--
enemies of progress, as extremists, fanatics, and militants. Their
concerns are frequently downplayed or dismissed. An anti-implant
protest rally in Canada (1995) made it into Chuck Shepard&#146;s "News
--
Spring 2000, titled "Sound and Fury" and subtitled "Thousands of deaf
kids can hear, and speak, thanks to a stunningly effective ear implant.
So why is the deaf community in an uproar?" To quote one of the
tatements: "Many leaders of the National Association of the Deaf have
gotten implants, and the group is redrafting a position paper to make
it more friendly to cochlear implants." We were aware that NAD was
redrafting its old CI position paper, but who were these NAD leaders
who had received implants? Nancy J. Bloch, NAD Executive Director, told
us, "I don&#146;t know where Arthur [Allen] got the &#145;many
leaders&#146; and &#145;more friendly to cochlear implants&#146; part,
committee is in the process of developing a new position statement for
--
for emphasis on visual language development, among other things."
It&#146;s safe to say that no NAD leaders have received implants.
And "stunningly effective?" Really?
--
of bitter feelings. There has been some public outcry. A number of
implanted kids have entered the schools for the deaf. How well has it
been working out for them? Are they making good progress? Deaf children
have been known to haze implanted kids mercilessly. Parents of
implanted kids have been publicly confronted and excoriated by Deaf
people. There has been name-calling, shouting, and a lot of online
--
Insulted, perhaps, but perhaps a more accurate response is "disturbed."
We&#146;re gravely concerned about the effect that the implants will
have on these children&#146;s educational careers, their social lives,
--
before making the commitment.
Deaf people, quite understandably, feel threatened by the implant in a
way that they don&#146;t feel threatened by other technological
--
Hearing aids, let it be remembered, are completely removable. An
implant is a permanent installation. The new implants are used with
babies, and the community "feels that they&#146;re being robbed of
their most precious resource&#150;deaf children." (We&#146;re
paraphrasing a statement we recently read.) The implant takes away more
than it gives.
--
the closet, get some recognition and respect for it in the academic
community and general society, along comes the implant and a new boom
in the most rigorous kind of oral/aural approach. Some of us don&#146;t
--
Several factors.
We are gravely concerned about implants becoming a "trend." Remember
when tonsillectomies were the medical trend? If your child got sick and
--
the trend died out.
One mother of two grown deaf children has compared cochlear implants to
ilicone breast implants, which the FDA assured us were quite safe, and
were part of a cosmetic trend&#150;until word got out that there were
might be some very bad consequences.
Some of us see implants as the latest medical fad for "curing"
deafness. There is already a backlash of youthful implantees who are,
for various reasons, unhappy with their implants and have stopped using
them. A few have even had them surgically removed. It&#146;s too soon
--
they&#146;ll be deprived of this tremendous source of enrichment.
The implant industry has a ready sucker market in parents of
newly-diagnosed deaf babies. They&#146;re in a state of shock. They may
--
their ads. Who could resist such a come-on?
There&#146;s a growing trend to send newborns straight to the implant
clinic after the hearing-screening tests confirm that they&#146;re
--
Wham! The kid&#146;s "fixed."
We&#146;re worried about the way the cochlear-implant corporations have
been promoting implants as a providing a magic key to a deaf
child&#146;s success in the mainstream, and the misleading advertising
--
incomplete, even deceptive, picture to parents. They tout the "higher
quality of life" supposedly enjoyed by young implantees, as compared
with unimplanted deaf children. The implant industry, as far as we can
tell, has no real interest in the total well-being of these children,
--
people), but to serve hearing parents. No CI surgeons or
representatives from the implant industry have, to our knowledge, ever
bothered to visit schools for the deaf or mainstream programs to see
just how well the consumers of their prostheses are doing in their
everyday lives. The implant industry has never sponsored any Deaf
Culture or ASL-affirmative events. They do send representatives to Deaf
--
any community initiative that isn&#146;t strictly self-serving.
We&#146;re worried about the way implants are marketed to parents of
newly-diagnosed deaf babies. Now, ostensibly, statewide screening
--
Question: Do parents of deaf babies really understand the options
before they commit to an implant?
Question: Are implants really a more cost-effective measure in the long
run than a sign-based education at a school for the deaf?
Question: Do parents whose children get implants have higher
expectations for them than parents who don&#146;t?
Question: What long-term effects do the implants have on a deaf child,
ocially and academically?
--
magazines, for example) carry glowing, simplistic stories about the
"miracle" of the implant ("the gift of sound!"), without discussing the
children whose experience with implants has been less than
"miraculous." When they tout a certain child making exemplary progress
with the implants, are they including full details of the child&#146;s
communication capabilities before he got the implant? In some cases,
they omit this data. Some of this success is undoubtedly due to active
--
extracurricular practice in reading and writing. We would like to know
what effect implants have on these vital skills.
Many of us in the Deaf community are likewise concerned about these
things. The high cost of the implant, the fact that there is still no
reliable way of predicting how much the implant will benefit a child or
what its long-term effect on her life may be, the attitude of some
doctors and implant-clinic staffers who prohibit any use of signing in
the rehabilitative regimen, parents who refuse to allow their child to
--
political clout of the CI lobby, our response has been scattershot.
There is no single unified anti-childhood-implant organization.
We are concerned about the way the implant is being promoted as a "cure
for deafness." Calling the implant a "cure" is a fallacy. The implant
does not cure deafness. From what we understand (and we have discussed
this at length with people who have chosen implants for themselves), it
is plain wrong to describe an implant as a "miracle" or "cure." In most
cases, profound sensorineural deafness is not a "curable" condition.
--
bionically undo this. There seems to be widespread misunderstanding
about just what an implant can do and what it cannot do.
What it does is to enable the user to perceive sounds and distinguish
--
doesn&#146;t make a deaf person hearing, but more like hard-of-hearing.
While some implantees are able to carry on regular voice conversations
on the telephone, others cannot. The outcome is quite unpredictable.
Just what is the quality of sound the implantees perceive? One
audiologist was quoted in a Sacramento Bee article (2001) as saying
that with an implant, 22 electrodes were "doing the work of 30,000 hair
cells." The 22 or 24 electrodes in an implant can&#146;t possibly
replace the thousands of microscopic hair cells in the cochlea that
give richness and depth to sounds as they are perceived in normal
hearing. One cochlear-implant usr likens the sounds he heard in his
implant as "environmental noise." Perceiving "environmental noise" is
not equivalent to hearing the full spectrum of sounds.
--
the acquisition of "normal" speech. How many hundreds, even thousands,
of hours does a deaf child with an implant spend in speech and auditory
therapy? Much of this time could be more profitably devoted to getting
--
Members of the CI lobby want parents to believe that in choosing an
implant for their children, they&#146;re giving them a magic key to
entry into a world without limitations. This, too, is propaganda. The
--
At an educational conference in North Carolina, we met several deaf
children with implants, and none of them could communicate with us. And
ince this was an inclusive conference, the kids could see Deaf adults,
--
At another conference a few years ago, we met a deaf woman who had
chosen an implant for herself, and we had a good talk. She told us that
he didn&#146;t believe that implants were right for deaf children,
that it should be a matter of informed choice, that implants
didn&#146;t make a deaf person hearing. A number of deaf people with
implants are fluent signers, and didn&#146;t sever their connections to
the Deaf community after getting one. (Getting flak from Deaf
anti-implant advocates is another matter entirely.) Choosing an implant
is a decision they&#146;ve made for themselves because they want to
--
Certainly . . . if they want to be. We are amply aware that some
oral-deaf persons, with or without implants, reject any idea of
affiliation with this community. They identify solely with the Hearing
--
oral interpreters when they&#146;re needed). And for most people with
cochlear implants (most of whom, as far as we can tell, have achieved
more modest gains than the spectacular ones enjoyed by Sigrid Cerf!),
these concerns haven&#146;t been eliminated. You would have to talk to
the people with implants to get their views. Some are oralists; some
are signers; some are eclectics. There&#146;s a wide spectrum of
experiences and a diversity of views. All deserve representation.
We are quite aware that some implant users love their implants, enjoy
what the implants do for them, and would never consider having them
removed. Some, who have received implants as children, are glad their
parents made that decision for them. Others aren&#146;t. A good number
--
developments with interest. We&#146;re aware that the 24-channel
implant is much less obtrusive-looking than the previous models, and
mall enough to be used in infants.
--
"problem" of being profoundly deaf. As is fairly well known, the
installation of a CI destroys whatever residual hearing the implantee
might have. During CI surgery, a narrow tube containing the array of
--
far as we can tell, has a totally unpredictable outcome.
The FDA approved cochlear implants for adults in 1985, and for children
over 18 months of age in 1990, and has subsequently lowered the age to
--
that the FDA proceeded recklessly, bowing to the interests of a wealthy
industry. The long-term effects of the implants are still unknown, and
there is some fear that we may have another "Meme" scenario in the
not-too-distant future. Sure, they say, the FDA insists that cochlear
implants are safe. Wasn&#146;t this exactly what they were saying about
ilicone breast implants not so long ago?
Lately, we&#146;ve learned that some CIs manufactured in the U.S. may
--
adults. An Associated Press report dated July 25, 2002 notes that
thirteen implantees in the U.S. have come down with meningitis,
including two deaf preschoolers who died. According to this report,
even implantees in other countries have also died from meningitis, and
these cases are being investigated by U.S. health authorities. Doctors
have been asked to report "any suspicious meningitis cases" to the FDA,
to "aggressively treat ear infections" in implantees, and make sure
children are properly vaccinated against meningitis.
--
ome parents who say they weren&#146;t sufficiently informed of the
Deaf Community&#146;s attitude towards implants and that if they had
known beforehand, would not have committed themselves to giving their
child an implant.
We are not fighting against the implant. We support the right of deaf
people to make informed choices for themselves.
--
that has been lost or damaged.
When we say that a person with an implant is still deaf, we mean that
it doesn&#146;t nullify one&#146;s being deaf. It doesn&#146;t reverse
deafness. It mechanically provides sound stimulation, but it
doesn&#146;t make a deaf person hearing. Disconnect the implant, and
the user is audiologically deaf again.
A deaf child with an implant is still going to be treated by others as
deaf, not hearing. They still need speech therapy, rehabilitation,
--
ector will undoubtedly need oral interpreters. Society doesn&#146;t
ee implanted people as "ex-deaf," but as "still deaf."
What do you mean by "isolation"? To us, an isolated deaf person is
--
ee it as having more of a negative effect.
For those who have lost their hearing, implants are undoubtedly "a good
thing for society." If we became blind, we would want our eyes replaced
--
experience as a sighted person, so we know what vision means, and what
we&#146;d be losing. Those who consciously choose to accept an implant
understand that there are no guarantees, acknowledge the risks
--
you."
The proponents of implants want the deaf person to bear the full burden
of the responsibility for communication, the burden of conforming to
--
will probably not understand the cultural view of ASL.
Entirely aside from that is the expense factor. Implants usually cost
omething like $50,000 a pop, and we don&#146;t think that figure even
--
covered by health insurance? And one of the lines of reasoning used by
these advocates is that the implant is, in the long run,
cost-effective. It&#146;s cheaper than the ultimate expense of sending
--
Culturally-Deaf people have moral qualms about helping to pay for
omeone else&#146;s implant, especially when that someone else is a
deaf child. They also have qualms about the implant industry&#146;s
making money off deaf people&#146;s deafness. As far as we know, no
deaf people occupy high positions in these corporations or clinics.
Few, if any, deaf people are directly benefiting from the implant
windfall. The implant industry is profiting directly from deaf
children&#146;s deafness&#150;and what is it doing to improve the
--
this, and you&#146;re bound to get a vehement answer.
We don&#146;t feel that cochlear implants are good for born-deaf
children. Why? It confuses them. It aggravates sensory confusion.
--
comprehend sounds any more than you can force a blind child to see
colors. The sounds they&#146;re getting from the implant are not
natural sounds, they&#146;re electronic sounds. Even if they&#146;re
--
electronic stimulation can be a "miraculous" substitute for natural
hearing. Well, you may note, so the 24-channel implant enables a wider
and more natural range of sounds to be decoded than was possible with
--
One thing that we&#146;d like to emphasize, and which we feel is
getting overlooked in this cochlear-implant slugfest, is the crucial
importance of teaching deaf children how to read and write.
--
important issue is getting trampled and buried beneath the stampede of
cochlear-implant controversy. Proponents of cochlear implants claim
that kids with implants are able to receive information aurally, as
hearing kids effortlessly do . . . but are they really getting all the
information? Aren&#146;t they missing something? Is the implant really
the "miracle fix" for deaf illiteracy? For decades, hearing aids were
--
This intensive aural-rehabilitation regimen that&#146;s part of the
childhood-cochlear-implant package&#150;is this really going to help
their literacy?
--
peech therapy does it take?) Without a solid foundation in literacy,
how can a person develop good speech and listening skills? This implant
brouhaha (give deaf kids bionic hearing so they can have better
--
ight of the priorities.
And this is one thing that worries us: that children with implants are
being categorically excluded from the advantages of visual language and
visual learning. The implant has unleashed a new assault against ASL
and sign-based education. This is definitely not a good thing.
--
the top of our priorities. Deaf children should learn how to read and
write first. They need this far more than they need implants. Reading
and writing are far more important skills than speaking and listening.
--
an education&#150;not adequate, let alone equal. Now we have an influx
of deaf kids with implants coming into the public schools, the schools
for the deaf, and the new oral schools. One Deaf superintendent told me
(off the record) that there were several deaf kids with implants in his
chool, and all of them had language delays.
--
ruthlessly powerful and influential faction, as our critics argue, why
weren&#146;t they able to prevent the FDA from approving implants for
deaf babies?) Imagine what schools and programs serving deaf children,
teens, and adults could do with the money that&#146;s being spent on
childhood cochlear implants&#150;$50,000 apiece! Federal monies spent
by the National Institutes of Health to study language acquisition in
youthful implantees could be more profitably used to improve deaf
children&#146;s literacy skills.
We fail to see how the implant boom is improving public attitudes
towards deaf people or ASL or the Deaf community at all. Indeed, we see
--
children into mainstream public-school programs, and to "fix the
problem" with implants. When oral/aural and sign-language programs are
competing for governmental funding, which one is going to get it?
--
This is something that neither the medical/audiological lobby nor the
implant industry recognize. (But why should they? When deaf children
become ASL users instead of consumers of expensive audiometrics, it
--
Our company runs a bulletin-board Website called DeafNotes, which has a
forum on cochlear implants. It has been the most frequently-posted and
hotly-debated of all the topics on that site since it was launched in
--
debates. The debate quickly began getting acrimonious, with parents who
have chosen to give their deaf children implants posting threads like
"Cochlear Implant Success Stories," and verbally slugging it out with
Deaf people who feel that implants for deaf children are a form of
child abuse. It has been a real headache for the moderators and us.
We recall how it started. When a woman who had chosen to give her young
deaf son an implant entered the debate, it had an explosive effect. We
had to delete a batch of postings because the dialogue had degenerated
--
progress is miraculous and want to tell the world about it; a few of
them have been actively and aggressively promoting implants. We call
them the "implant evangelists."
A relatively small number of parents of deaf children with implants.
There are a few of them who are notoriously aggressive and belligerent
--
regularly interviewed by hearing-media reporters. They see themselves
as ambassadors for the cause of implanting deaf kids. They have two
faces: the mask of the loving, concerned parent (which they show to the
--
be as extreme in their rhetoric as any diehard oralist. But we&#146;ve
have the worst trouble with the implant evangelists. We had to ban a
few of them because they repeatedly broke the rules&#150;they showed
discourtesy to others, insulted opponents, used sarcasm and profanity,
and engaged in illicit promotion of commercial cochlear-implant sites.
They interfered with other participants&#146; enjoyment of the site,
--
What they were doing&#150;or trying hard as hell to do&#150;was
providing free advertising for the cochlear-implant
industry&#150;posting messages with links to corporate and promotional
--
is not allowed. This prohibition has been routinely violated by the
implant evangelists. When we removed their offensive posts, they
creamed and cussed at us. A few of them sent us obscene E-mails. They
called us Nazis. They accused us of censoring their free speech by
uppressing their news about the miraculous progress their implanted
kids have been making. In reality, we banned them because of their
--
an interview with Sigrid Cerf, we contacted the company that
manufactured the implant she uses, and invited them to advertise in
DEAF LIFE. We received no response. Neither did we get a response from
--
LIFE or a banner-ad in any of our Websites. And yet, when we removed
posts with promotional links, the implant evangelists cried foul.
That&#146;s what the CI lobby and the implant evangelists would like
the public to believe. We&#146;re more apt to read about the "miracle
tories" of deaf kids with implants because their parents have been
actively publicizing and promoting implants, with the aid of the
implant industry, which has one of the slickest propaganda campaigns
we&#146;ve ever seen. Kids who start signing at an early age (i.e.,
--
testimonial by a happy mother about the joys of having a deaf child
with an implant: "our miracle child." But do you ever see an article
about the delights of parenting an ASL-using child? My proposal:
--
We find it morally questionable, the way some of these parents parade
their implanted children around to the media, show them off to
legislators, have them testify before Congress . . . More funding for
cochlear-implant programs, please, and as long as you&#146;re at it,
you can cut the budgets of those sign-language programs. We certainly
don&#146;t need them.
Some of these implant evangelists exercise a form of denial. They claim
that their children were born hearing, then became deaf, so by giving
them implants, they&#146;re restoring their children&#146;s original
hearing. Can they prove their children were born hearing? Can they
--
don&#146;t need a CI to derive this benefit.
Many parents who give their kids implants want them to use the
oral/aural mode exclusively&#150;no signing allowed. Parents who make
the decision to give their children implants often say things like, "We
wanted to give our child a choice. If Jimmy wants to learn sign
language later and be deaf and switch off the implant, that&#146;s fine
with us." But how is Jimmy going to make a choice when he has no daily
--
That puts a psychological burden on the child.
The extreme culturally-Deaf view is that cochlear implants are a form
of child abuse, even genocide&#150;accusations that anger parents and,
moreover, would be exceptionally difficult to prove in court. We can
understand why Deaf people feel this way, why they feel that implants
represent the latest of several organized attempts to wipe out Deaf
--
we&#146;d wager that they too have their secret signing groups. And in
the newly-opened schools for deaf children with implants, we
wouldn&#146;t be at all surprised if the kids found a way to sign in
--
their own. We are concerned about the emotional and cognitive
well-being of these young implantees in mainstreamed or strict-oral
environments. Some of them, of course, are receiving exposure to ASL.
--
To them, being deaf is normal. They want to be accepted as they are.
What sort of self-identity will these implanted kids have? Will they
consider themselves deaf or hearing? A question: What&#146;s special
--
they reach their teens or college age. If this is so, we anticipate
that a large number of implantees will do likewise.
No matter how assiduously their parents, clinicians, medical
professionals, and the implant industry try to make the Deaf community
irrelevant and invisible, we believe that many of these deaf kids with
implants will ultimately choose to connect with our community. The
reason is fairly simple: deaf people like to be with other deaf people,
--
perceptions and feelings. One of our challenges is to extend a warm
welcome to deaf people with implants. We cannot afford to reject any
deaf person simply because s/he has a CI. The Deaf community, like any
--
attitudinal disability. Some of the comments we&#146;ve read from
implant evangelists and journalists are proof that the cochlear-implant
trend has not improved public attitudes towards deaf people. Indeed, it
--
This site is to be considered "in progress." We solicit input from deaf
people who have firsthand experience with implants, negative and
positive. We welcome your participation.
better. Anyways, I’ll let his words speak for himself:
I won’t criticize the issue of cochlear implant since I am not a
ubject of cochlear implant. Only people with cochlear implant can
either give feedback or criticize it. But with experience of
associating with people with cochelar implant or researching
information of good and bad sides of cochelar implant, people without
cochelar implant can justify the case. Hence, parents of cochlear
implanted children are foremost people without cochlear implant to
voice about it.
--
to communicate people who lack knowledge on sign language.
I am hearing more positive side of people with cochlear implant since
they are able to use spoken language fluently just like hearing people
--
I associate people who use ASL fluently.
If technology of cochlear implant occurs during my time I enter the
world, I know that I will have cochlear implant since I belong to a
majority group of deaf people since I come from hearing parents.
--
tudents at school. Now if my children are deaf, will they get cochlear
implant? I cannot answer that because it is not happening. Thank God
and I pray that my children will not lose their hearing since I know
--
correctly but I just learned that Sweden government are footing bills
on cochlear implant surgery for deaf children. In the past, it was
Sweden law that parents of deaf babies/children are referred to the
deaf communities that advocate sign language.
If people with cochlear implant are happy for what they are, these
matter me the most since if they are happy, then I am happy. If they
are sad, I will feel bad. So I have to say that people who criticize
about cochlear implant are truly deniers or another better word,
narrowed-minded whiners.
--
Coalition convention to harass AGB people. I say AGB people without
cochlear implant truly care for betterment of deaf children with
cochelar implant or oral skills who have better opportunity than deaf
children without cochlear implant due to job market where the world is
run dominately by spoken language. For people who advocate DBC, don’t
you find anything more exciting than just being so obsessed with your
disagreement with the agendas of AGB. Cochlear implant are here to stay
and it is sad to note that the deaf culture is becoming smaller and
--
ince I wish I have oral skills due so I have lot of choice to make. I
don’t blame for parents who choose cochlear implant surgery for their
deaf children.
--
April 5, 2008 at 7:08 pm
I’m here to educate and inform others about cochlear implants, AVT, and
my views. I’m not here to ask people to agree with me. If you don’t
--
“Factors Affecting the Development of Speech, Language, and Literacy
in Children With Early Cochlear Implantation”
Ann E. Geers, Central Institute for the Deaf, St. Louis, MO LANGUAGE,
--
and audition for communication were better able to use the information
provided by the implant to hear, speak and read. Use of sign
communication with implanted children did not promote auditory and
peech skill development and did not result in an advantage for overall
--
language. Oral education appears to be an important educational choice
for children who have received a cochlear implant before 5 years of
age.”
Language Skills of Children with Early Cochlear Implantation
Geers, Ann E.; Nicholas, Johanna G.; Sedey, Allison L.
Ear & Hearing. 24(1) Supplement:46S-58S, February 2003
Use of a cochlear implant has had a dramatic impact on the linguistic
competence of profoundly hearing-impaired children. More than half of
--
Use of Speech by Children From Total Communication Programs Who Wear
Cochlear Implants
Ann Geers 1, Brent Spehar, Allison Sedey 2
--
did children who used little or no speech. After 3 years with an
implant, speech users were more likely than children who used little or
no speech to be placed in mainstream educational programs.
--
in today’s mainstream society.”
Relationship Between Communication Mode and Implant Performance in
Pediatric CLARION Patients
--
Ph. D., Advanced Bionics Corporation, Sylmar, CA”
Paper presented at 1997 5th International Cochlear Implant Conference,
May 1-3, 1996, New York, NY.
--
audiological outcome measures was examined in pediatric patients who
received the CLARION cochlear implant. The results revealed that both
groups of children (children who used oral communication and children
--
Approach to communication, speech perception and intelligibility after
paediatric cochlear implantation
S.M. Archbold, T.P. Nikolopoulos, M. Tait, G.M. O’Donoghue, M.E. Lutman
--
The present study revealed that, on measures of speech perception and
intelligibility obtained three, four and five years after implantation,
children using oral communication outperformed those using signed
--
position to be in. To have one’s own self worth rendered valueless, and
the only redeeming feature is a future of implants…
April 5, 2008 at 9:55 pm
I work with deaf children including those who have been implanted. I
have seen some children who were successful with speech and listening
--
uccesses with their CIs and AVT:
This is why I created Cochlear Implant Online, to inform parents of
deaf children with CIs how to raise their children successfully so that
--
provided a story written by my mother about her raising my sister and
me (http://cochlearimplantonline.com/index2.php?story) to acknowledge
parents that it takes a lot of hard work and dedication to raise their
--
Can I just say summat. No one is, neither am I, saying that you should
not have had yr implant. Or that the way you were raised wasn’t a
uccess. It clearly was, and for you it worked.
--
more visual or more aural. Would be nice to have a balance. That is why
I like http://aslci.blogspot.com/ (the ASL-Cochlear Implant Community
blog.)
--
as my girls have. CI technology is continuing to improve with new
implants and processors about every 5 years, and the age of
implantation is continuing to drop. These kids do not need ASL. The
older ones still do not need or desire ASL. I get that you feel
--
ASL program. Why the English language is not completely accessible,
I’ll try to explain… Even with hearing aids, cochlear implants (I know
it’s improving so that it’s better now), or whatever assistive devices,
--
in as well.
The first step would be to contact your closest Cochlear Implant Center
for a candidacy evaluation to see if you qualify for a cochlear
implant. (This link will help you find the nearest clinic:
http://www.cochlearamericas.com/Support/38.asp). Without knowing your
--
to make the best decision for you!
Anecdotal evidence from CI users who received their implants as adults
tells me this:
--
2. You mentioned that you rely on lipreading and have problems in
background noise. A cochlear implant most likely will help with this.
Many adult CI recipients find that their CI aids in comprehension of
--
they find themselves relying on hearing rather than speechreading more
and more as their experience with the implant grows. Cochlear implants
also have specific programming options that allow you to “focus” the
--
with greater success. Many CI users can, but again, individual results
vary. How can you get the best use out of your cochlear implant? Get
the necessary follow-up! Frequent mappings, sessions with an AVT,
at-home computer programs for listening practice, wearing the implant
all waking hours, etc. all of these things will increase your enjoyment
and success with a cochlear implant.
4. The time it takes is very individual, based on various factors
--
5. Your speech would sound different to you, but just different, not
worse. In fact, because the cochlear implant provides improved access
to high frequency sounds HAs can miss (/s/, /f/, etc.), you might find
--
Please remember that my child has been aided( and now uses both a
hearing aid and cochlear implant) since a young age and received one on
one Auditory Verbal Therapy for 4 years. So, I will say that what you
--
what the various manufacturers’ plans are should be a factor in
choosing an implant brand if you do indeed decide to go that route. I
will say that the longer you wait, no matter how good the new
--
children ages 2 through 17. Thus, there simply aren’t that many
implanted as babies or toddlers who have hit the older grades yet.
Therefore, these AVT failures that you cite either weren’t in
legitimate AV programs or likely were not implanted as babies or
toddlers. Rachel was the first child in New England to get an implant,
and when we moved to Atlanta, she was the first child her AV center had
ever seen with an implant. Now, 85% – 90% of the children at the center
have CIs. As I said, things are changing.
--
Just as a hearing child absorbs spoken language from the beginning.
Deaf children when properly aided or using a cochlear implant begin to
absorb the same spoken language from the beginning. Of course 2 month
--
of sign language and speech production among children who have received
cochlear implants (Preisler, Tvingstedt and Ahlström, 2002).
Thus, there is no empirical evidence to support the concern that the
acquisition of ASL will inhibit English speech or literacy development
among children with cochlear implants.”
Also get this:
“The importance of acquiring a strong first language applies equally to
children who receive a cochlear implant. Current policy in Ontario
discourages children who receive cochlear implants from acquiring ASL
fluency in their early years. The assumption appears to be that
--
April 6, 2008 at 5:04 pm
Those children that I have worked with were implanted as babies and
were in AVT programs. They are now in the elementary school ages so
--
We believe it is the right of every child to use spoken communication.
If he is properly aided or uses a cochlear implant, why would I begin
by teaching him ASL? Why wouldn’t I choose to begin with English? We
--
who are not happy with the result, these people have been. However,
there experiences are not the same as someone implanted at a young age.
In my opinion, ANY parent preparing to have ANY surgery for their child
--
years, using hearing aids, which did not work at all for her, before we
could have her implanted. My daughter was provided with teachers from
the School for the Deaf from 6 months until three when the local school
ystem takes over. We chose to have total communication at the time. My
daughter was implanted shortly after and eventually, SHE showed less
interest in the sign we taught her than in the sounds she was hearing.
It wasn’t a perfect transition and if I had my choice I probably would
have had her implanted earlier. But we had communication at the time
and we still do. She is a happy child. She LOVES school. No one can
--
I’d do it either with them sitting on my lap looking at the book and
listening to me or with them by my side with their implanted ear next
to me as they both only initially had one ear implanted. I consider
this time spent with them to be a very important part of their auditory
--
Language and cognition does NOT begin the moment a child speaks, nor
does it begin the minute a child is implanted. It begins the minute the
mother speaks or signs to the baby… right after birth. While one waits
for implantation, and does not sign with the baby, one loses precious
time in the language and cognitive process with that child… one that
--
Your comment is very true. My sister, Jessica, has apraxia, a type of
peech disorder. When she was first implanted, she was not making any
progress in speech during the first few months as my parents expected.
--
I’ve read the research.
Didn’t wait for implantion. Found out about hearing loss. Properly
aided the day after learning about his hearing loss. So he didn’t lose
--
cool that he was able carry on a great conversation long distance with
a funny sounding aunt using his cochlear implant. I think he asked her
to repeat something once. Mind you that this was in our very loud
--
I however am concerned more about OTHER parents who have a false sense
of thinking that once they get their child implanted, their child will
just automatically pick up and be “normal”. There are too many kids
being implanted after five years old and with no intense AVT at all or
dedicated parental involvement. Many of these kids were already exposed
--
these two as two sepearate approach. The exception would be if a deaf
family decides to implant their child, then I can see where AVT and ASL
would be able to work.
--
I really appreciate Open Minded’s comment. I appreciate DBC’s efforts
and all the people behind Cochlear Implant Online.
In the end, it seems everyone’s efforts are all about being able to
--
emphasis that you are a ***successful*** AVT product, why not seize a
golden opportunity to be implanted to hear people speak, laugh, cry,
ing? “Two best worlds” is better than one world!
--
it but what does it have to do with AVT? There are still many parents
out there that have not implanted their child and are using the oral
method – I can see where you might want to advocate towards these
--
I agree that to expose ASL to babies is an excellent idea. But, parents
who decide to implant their child should stick to practices that have
been found to benefit C.I. to its fullest potential.
--
There’s no way a parent can go back to the providers and complain if
the implant didn’t work since they didn’t follow the recommended
practice.
--
process its basically a moot point.
The bigger question is whether AVT is the best method for CI implantees
and thats where I want to see an unbiased research document, because as
--
afety net. Too many children in USA experience the same lack of
exposure to ASL even when implanted and struggle with AVT therapy.
DBC has been formed to ensure that children are able to receive the
--
child may be a visual learner versus an auditory learner, or the age at
which the child was implanted, or learning disabilities compounded with
deafness, the list goes on.
--
Why don’t you ask your hearing friends to listen to Jessica, who was
implanted at age 15 months, at
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-Ae2VW6NMZE
--
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aNFnpZAtK9c
who was implanted at age 9 months,
or most of the kids at
--
Texas Southwestern Medical Center. Her research interests include the
developmental evaluation of deaf children after cochlear implantation.
Sounds like legitimate qualifications for doing research to me. If your
--
tem cell therapies, cellular mechanisms, aural rehabilitation, speech,
anatomy, hearing loss, tissue destruction, cochlear implants, clinical
epidemiology, hearing aids… and many others. Many of those focus on the
--
deprived. They are not linguistically delayed upon graduation from the
programs. They are functioning well with their implants in their
worlds. Maybe you should work on your bi-bi program. Develop it,
--
understood my point earlier. When I googled the names (in quotes), the
only information I could find was on cochlear implant studies, the ear,
hearing, otolaryngology, audiologic rehabilitation, and other stuff
--
note that she got her c.i. at the age of 2 years and 8 months, which is
considered late nowadays. The age of implantation does make a
ignificant difference. Please listen to the speech of her younger
ister Jessica who got implanted at the age of 15 months.
In the successful cases of aural/oral competency with kids implanted
less than two years old, even more with one year old or younger,
--
can learn to listen very shortly after birth. They can babble as
infants and, if implanted early, can develop the normal phonemes AT THE
SAME TIME as their hearing peers (and I’ve had a toddler with hundreds
--
Stories
Choose Cochlear Implant
Tags
Acceptance Accommodations Advanced Bionics Advocacy AGBell ASL Audiology AVT
Awareness Babies BHSM Children CI User Story Cochlear Implant Cochlear
Implant Convention Cochlear™ College Deaf Community EaR Books Encouragement
Events Facts Giveaway Contest Hearing Aids Language Life MED-EL Medical Care
--
FAQ
Cochlear Implant
Life
--
Facebook Twitter YouTube Flickr pinterest RSS
Cochlear Implant Online is not endorsed by Cochlear™, MED-EL, Advanced
Bionics, and AGBell. Articles and comments do not necessarily represent
the views of all three companies and AGBell. This website is created by
Rachel Chaikof, who is a Cochlear™ Nucleus® bilateral cochlear implant
recipient, to create awareness about cochlear implants and listening
and spoken language.
Go Back   AllDeaf.com > Deaf Interests > Hearing Aids & Cochlear
Implants
Reload this Page She's in BIG trouble!!!
--
__________________________________________________________________
Well, after having an implant for about 5 months now, my daughter has
milked this enough. The Audie said she has only been wearing it for
--
Is there something else involved?
When she disconnects her Cochlear Implant presumably she hears nothing
How exactly does that square with "fitting in" with her hearing
--
Was she not advised in order for her brain to "process sound from her
Implant" she must have it on all the time for her brain to get used to
new sound?
Was she "excited" about getting a Cochlear implant thus hoping if
uitable-of hearing much more speech- then she heard in the past?
Even odder-most females can "cover their Implants" while most males
can't-it is very obvious.
--
Much luck in a resolution in the near future which brings some peace.
Get Real:Implanted Sunnybrook/Toronto -Advanced Bionics-Harmony
activated Aug/07
--
Forum Jump
[    Hearing Aids & Cochlear Implants___] Go
All times are GMT -5. The time now is 01:17 PM.
Go Back   AllDeaf.com > Deaf Interests > Hearing Aids & Cochlear
Implants
Reload this Page She's in BIG trouble!!!
--
really care. She still begged for it, and wanted it. She was shown
urgeries on YouTube of actual implants, and she still wanted for it.
She even said she may want to be an ENT someday so she could do the
--
curiosity.. Do you sign? Does you daughter have contact with the deaf
community in your area? Also curious, whose idea was the implant and
how did that come up?
--
Forum Jump
[    Hearing Aids & Cochlear Implants___] Go
All times are GMT -5. The time now is 01:18 PM.
Go Back   AllDeaf.com > Deaf Interests > Hearing Aids & Cochlear
Implants
Reload this Page She's in BIG trouble!!!
--
Forum Jump
[    Hearing Aids & Cochlear Implants___] Go
All times are GMT -5. The time now is 01:18 PM.
Go Back   AllDeaf.com > Deaf Interests > Hearing Aids & Cochlear
Implants
Reload this Page ok here goes
--
__________________________________________________________________
A lot of folks have posted their journey in getting Cochlear implants.
Mine has just begun. I`m still not sure what I will decide to do or
--
There is still the risk of significant side effects from the surgery.
Might want to investigate those more too. My second implant messed up
my balance in that I can't do a forward flip or roll or hang my head
--
roller coasters too. Also he didn't think there was much chance of it
improving if implant was removed. Surgeon had no idea of the cause
either. Also changed my taste sensation as well.
--
have a date. It will be an out patient surgery and last about 2-3
hours. They will make a small cut in my head and implant an internal
device. I will be completely deaf until 4-5 weeks after. Then I will be
--
Forum Jump
[    Hearing Aids & Cochlear Implants___] Go
All times are GMT -5. The time now is 01:18 PM.
Go Back   AllDeaf.com > Deaf Interests > Hearing Aids & Cochlear
Implants
Reload this Page Otologics carina implant, anyone?
LIKE AllDeaf on Facebook FOLLOW AllDeaf on Twitter
--
Liked 0 Times in 0 Posts
Otologics carina implant, anyone?
__________________________________________________________________
Hi Folks,
Has anyone here experience of the Carina implant?
I am using GN Azure at the moment in both ears, I am considering some
ort of implant in the future, perhaps a year or two
I am wondering how they function during things like cell phone usage
--
Here are 3 testimonials from those who have the Carina:
The Hearing Study | Carina Fully Implantable Hearing Device
Hear Again is offline   Reply With Quote
--
they are still doing trails and finding ways to improve speech
discrimination with the implantable hearing aid. The microphone that is
implanted under the skin has to be more sensitive while blocking out
the body sounds that the mic may pick up. I heard some have good
--
Send a message via AIM to etalton Send a message via Yahoo to etalton
Carina implantable hearing aid gets showed off - Engadget
Implantable Hearing Aids
There are several articles at this site. Hope that helps...
E.T.
Left Ear Implanted 11-07-08 (Nucleus Freedom)
Activation 12-18-08
Right Ear Implanted 3-3-2010(N5)
Activation 3-11-10
--
use Carina.
Here's another implantable hearing device that you could check out.
It's a Vibrant Soundbridge. You'll have to wear an external headpiece.
--
It's for sensoreneural hearing loss. It's for those with
modereate-to-severe hearing loss, too. It's implantable in the middle
ear.
--
It's amazing how deaf people get mixed reactions from considering
cochlear implants, but when it comes to implantable hearing devices or
devices for people with moderate-to-severe hearing loss, people are
--
Liked 4 Times in 4 Posts
I have just had a carina implant operation in Hamburg tuesday 22nd of
eptember 2009. At the moment I still have bandaid around my head and I
--
Hospital in Hamburg and Thomas Witt from Otologics. I asked questions
and they told me about the operation and the implant. I went home to
figure out whether this was something for me or not. I took contact to
--
blue marks in the head. The skin and scalp has to get used to the
implant. Still can´t hear anything.
My own doctor have removed the stiches - and the shaved hairs has
--
to know.
I don't think security should be an issue. As with most implants, I
would think that you have an identification card showing you have the
implant?
Old 11-21-2009, 07:11 PM                                       #21
--
Liked 28 Times in 25 Posts
From reading the above=Carina hearing aid-is not a Cochlear Implant.
Thus can't be compared at all.
--
How it compares to other Hearing Aids- cost wise?
Get Real:Implanted Sunnybrook/Toronto -Advanced Bionics-Harmony
activated Aug/07
--
Old 01-29-2012, 08:41 PM   #30
Oh and there was some weird tubeless implant thing awhile back that hit
the news....seems to have shrunk without a trace. Most of the hype
--
Forum Jump
[    Hearing Aids & Cochlear Implants___] Go
All times are GMT -5. The time now is 01:18 PM.
Go Back   AllDeaf.com > Deaf Interests > Hearing Aids & Cochlear
Implants
Reload this Page Otologics carina implant, anyone?
LIKE AllDeaf on Facebook FOLLOW AllDeaf on Twitter
--
Sweet sound published by the House Research Institute
"One of the principal advantages of implantable hearing aids is that
they directly transfer the amplified signal into vibrational energy,
--
the journal Otolaryngology, patients who received the Otologics Carina
implant in only one ear performed slightly worse on hearing tests than
with the conventional hearing aids they had used before the surgery.
--
Horlbeck, who headed the trial at Wilford Hall Medical Center in San
Antonio. Of the other eight, most say the implant is "as good as a
hearing aid, and a few of them feel it's better," says Dr. Horlbeck,
who is currently working in Jacksonville, Fla."
According to the published article, the Carina's Implantable microphone
is 100 percent effective (better than conventional hearing aids) in the
econd trial. This is very important because the Cochlear Ltd. is
borrowing Otologic's exact Implantable microphone for the Totally
Implantable C.I.
So, believe it or not, the Totally Implantable Cochlear Implant's
microphone is already 100 percent perfect (just like the Carina's mic
--
commercially available (CE mark) in Europe since 2006. Come on! Get
approved in the US already. Then they can get the Totally Implantable
Cochlear Implant rolling.
mlb 10th inning is offline   Reply With Quote
--
a battery that is recharged through the skin and a problematic
implanted microphone, already overcome.
Cochlear is the owner of Otologics. The french cochlear implant company
Neurelec and Otologics got in lawsuit problems. Cochlear is the winner!
--
I am VERY glad I found you.
I am considering having a Carina device implanted. I am trying to
collect as much information as I can before making such a big step. Are
--
__________________
Get Real:Implanted Sunnybrook/Toronto -Advanced Bionics-Harmony
activated Aug/07
--
things hyped up for their product. Also the mention of the Completely
Implantable CI reminded me of that dude from years ago who was
completely and totally fixtated on it.
--
The speed of increasing hearing loss is highly specific to each person.
It is my clear understanding that Cochlear Implants are not comparable
to Hearing aids which only increase sound. Thus one can hear-somewhat.
I have no comment on your understanding that Cochear Implants are
"unsuitable" for you
--
Forum Jump
[    Hearing Aids & Cochlear Implants___] Go
All times are GMT -5. The time now is 01:18 PM.
Go Back   AllDeaf.com > Deaf Interests > Hearing Aids & Cochlear
Implants
Reload this Page Choosing a cochlear implant brand
LIKE AllDeaf on Facebook FOLLOW AllDeaf on Twitter
--
Liked 2 Times in 1 Post
Choosing a cochlear implant brand
__________________________________________________________________
--
having enough with the HA so im certainly sure
I will get implanted( in process of doings the CT scan and such things)
I have a question... There are INDEPENDENT studies
--
Send a message via AIM to soutthpaw
I posted a thread before about the "Myth" that any one implant company
has better technology. Rather they each use different approaches to
--
programming knowledge and abilities. In other words there is still tons
of room for growth with the N6 processor and the various implant
arrays.
--
on many occasions. One of the things they are currently working on is
having bilateral implants wirelessly working together to better
localize and process sound.
--
is in your head that counts and AB is the best.
http://cochlearimplanthelp.com/
HOH-ME is offline   Reply With Quote
--
Forum Jump
[    Hearing Aids & Cochlear Implants___] Go
All times are GMT -5. The time now is 01:18 PM.
Go Back   AllDeaf.com > Deaf Interests > Hearing Aids & Cochlear
Implants
Reload this Page Considering implant for your child
LIKE AllDeaf on Facebook FOLLOW AllDeaf on Twitter
--
Liked 312 Times in 236 Posts
Considering implant for your child
__________________________________________________________________
--
This section is intended for parents of deaf children, especially those
who are seriously considering giving their child an implant. It is
written by Deaf adults who are the grown-up children of hearing
--
There is, however, a disturbing trend to send deaf newborns straight to
the cochlear-implant clinic. The parents are supposed to be presented
with information on the various options in a fair and unbiased way, but
it seems that a number of them arent. Theyre being steered in one
direction onlytowards the implant. They are told that the best time to
implant is infancy, when a child is just beginning to acquire language.
Any postponement could lead to irreversible delays in progress, as deaf
--
decision. And when they get pressured by opposing factions, they
ometimes fight back by choosing an extreme approach. Cochlear implants
represent the most extreme of approaches: a surgical invasion of a
--
OUR PERSONAL FEELINGS
We dont believe that a cochlear implant should be installed in
prelingually deaf babies and young children. If a child already has
--
how to speak, or was born hard-of-hearing but lost her hearing
gradually, we have no objection to the implant, because the child is
imply reconnecting with her previous mode of communication. That child
already has a basis for spoken and aural language. An implant will
enable the child to build on the existing foundation.
--
deafthat is, he has no foundation in aural/spoken languagethen we dont
feel that an implant is suitable. It causes sensory confusion. Deaf
children are, and should be allowed to be, visualnot auditorylearners.
--
those who are blindbut deaf people are told that we should get
ourselves fixed. Fixed, that is, with cochlear implants.
SIGNS OF LOVE
One thing that parents of kids with implants always tell the media is
how much they love their deaf kids, and to make an explicit connection
between their love and the implant. They say things like We wanted to
give Jimmy exposure to the wonderful world of sound because we love
--
them), and they respect ASL (even if they refuse to learn it), but they
are confident that the implant is in their childs best interest.
The greatest gift of love you can give your deaf child is to accept him
--
MIRACLE OR MISTAKE?
The cochlear-implant industry has run a fantastically successful
campaign aimed at parents of deaf babies. Give your deaf child the gift
of sound, they say. Give your child a magic key to success in he
mainstream. With an implant, they claim, a deaf child can acquire
normal or near-normal spoken language, just like hearing children. They
--
In reality, there is no reliable way to predict how well a child will
function with an implant, nor how rapid their oral/aural progress will
be. The benefits accruing from the implant may be negligible. Its an
expensive gamble.
--
electrodes can never replace the delicate and subtle sense of hearing.
Some veteran CI users have disliked the way their implants fed
environmental noises into their heads. So they switched their implants
off, finding that they could better focus on work or play without them.
--
the wearer to distinguish some degree of sound discrimination. After
receiving an implant, a child typically needs extensive one-to-one
auditory/speech therapy so that she can learn to interpret these
--
ign-language programs and schools for the deaf. But is it really?
Implants cost $40,000 to $50,000 a pop, and we dont think that includes
the intensive speech-therapy regimen thats required afterwards. Very
few, if any, parents, we suspect, would opt for an implant if it wasnt
covered by health insurance. There is a persistent myth that a child
--
local community-college Basic Sign class, its still considerably
cheaper than an implant.
Most children with implants ultimately decide to join the Deaf
community. They learn sign language; they make it an important part of
--
BE WARNED!
In persuading parents to commit themselves to the implant, audiologists
and CI clinicians may not present a strictly accurate picture. They may
--
Before he agreed to the surgery, he discussed the pros and cons with an
audiologist. Steven was told that with an implant, hed be able to use
the telephone normally, to engage in telephone conversations just as
--
At least a few deaf children have told their parents that they wanted
an implant for themselves. This, at least, was their conscious choice.
Parents of these children, and we know of two such instances, discussed
the matter thoroughly with the children first, did their homework, and
investigated the pros and cons of the implant before committing
themselves. In at least one case, a deaf girl who had gotten the
implant lost most of her deaf friends. Deaf children with implants
often endure hazing from other deaf kids: Borg! Borg! Robot-ear!
Most deaf children, when learning about what an implant is and what it
does, are dismayed at the prospect of having electrodes surgically
installed in their heads. But some are satisfied with the implant, and
ay theyre happy their parents made the decision for them. Others are
unhappy about having implants and, for various reasons, stop using them
when they reach college age. There is no consensus. The CI population
itself is split in disagreement over the value of the implant. Some
users, who had no technical problems with their implants, nonetheless
decided to stop using them.
--
ensorineural deafness is a permanent condition. It cannot be undone
with an implant. Deaf children who are born-deaf or early-deafened will
always be deaf. They will be looked upon and treated as deaf by hearing
people. Having an implant will not make them just like hearing.
How catastrophic is deafness? We recall an interview with Katharine
--
going through.
My parents got me a cochlear implant when I was a baby, and it took
years for me to acquire intelligible speech.
My parents were confident that Id do just fine without an implant. They
had faith in me.
--
One big question, of course, is: who has the final say in deciding to
give a deaf child a cochlear implant? Who makes the decision on behalf
of the deaf child? The parents, of course. And who influences this
--
despite the well-publicized benefits of a signing environment, and we
dont see much abatement of this trend. The implant doctors, as far as
we can tell, shrug off criticism from Deaf advocates as the rantings of
--
has a negative opinion of signing? One who links signing with low
expectations? One who has an interest in promoting implants? Just who
is presenting the options to the parents? Are the various possibilities
--
only? Do the parents understand the sign-affirmative option . . . or is
the cochlear-implant option being touted as the best possible (or the
only) solution?
--
igning with their deaf kids (especially after they receive an
implant), they may not thrive in the prescribed oral/aural regimenbut
theyre excluded from deriving benefit from signing. In effect, theyre
--
Does it boil down to who has the slicker, more aggressive PR campaign:
the chronically under-funded ASL lobby or the wealthy cochlear-implant
industry?
--
the outcome affirmed that a mother could refuse to give her deaf kids
implants (even though county authorities believed that it was in the
childrens best interests), and that the court could not overrule her
decision and implant them against her will. Parents currently have the
ole legal right to decide whether or not their child receives an
implant. There are some Deaf people who feel that parents should not be
the ones to make this decision. They believe that the deaf child should
--
to encounter parents who have already given their deaf children
cochlear implantsand are now sorry that they did. We have a bit of
advice for parents in this situation: dont get bogged down with guilt.
--
Balanced???? It seemed to be ALL from the perspective of those that
aid DO NOT IMPLANT!! I feel sure there are those that are grateful
that they got an implant very early.
Likes: (1)
--
Makes sense and allot of food for thought
Its refreshing compared to the usual steady implant propoganda we are
inflicted with by ci adherents and cult followers...
--
I have been looking for some articles that do state this... nit from
parents or doctors.. but from the deaf adult that was implanted as a
baby.... if you find some or know of them can you shoot them to me in a
--
without someone between us and them.
People implanted at < 2 years old are just hitting their prime years
now though, since implanting at that age didn't really start until the
90s. They're just finishing up school and entering the work force.
--
Old 08-26-2015, 06:58 PM   #12
I've met a few who've had early implants. But they were all college
kids in public universities. It's really an unfair sampling. They've
all had good support systems and probably would have been successful
regardless of implants.
That's kind of the danger of it, meeting random folks and getting their
--
who only have one experience or opinion over the other.
There have to be research studies on early implants and success in
HS/college by this point that have come out of Gal or NTID. It might be
--
Liked 83 Times in 38 Posts
Well, there aren't many adults yet who were implanted as babies.
According to an Internet search I just did, Cochlear implants were
approved for children in the US around 1990, but I don't know when
babies began receiving them. But even if the first Cochlear implant for
a 12-month-old was done in 1990 (No idea if that's true) that person
--
Old 08-26-2015, 07:14 PM   #15
Yes implants in babies has been bieng done only since 90s..
Old 08-26-2015, 07:17 PM   #16
--
religious about the oppurtunities the maricle has showered upon its
blessed implanted babies and children, on the other it has very little
real data to even back it up, considering the babies who have been
--
have a position and stand on the issue
Personally ive known first hand more early implanted that have had
drastic negative effects from them then havnt. Im not stating non are
--
Old 08-26-2015, 07:35 PM   #19
The same can be said for those who say that implanting babies won't
produce positive outcomes - or will prevent them - in the long run...
--
Just saying, "I know several people who ended up with migraines," or
"All the people I know with implants love them, " means nothing unless
it's part of scientific research and statistically valid. I've had
migraines my whole life and they're not due to any implant. Unless it
can be shown that people with implants have statistically more health
problems than they would have gotten without implants, there's no way
to know.
--
comes to drilling holes into.babies heads...well for me anyway...
What other product are we implanting in babies on a mass scale using
the above logic?
Is that really the pitch to parents?"we dont have data either way"
The first implants into babies were done in france against medical
opposition by leading surgeons, its important to get a handle of the
--
up, and still hardly doesnt regarding the shower of lavish
oppurtunities that awaits an implanted baby if and only if the baby is
implanted..now 25 years on some data will.exist,but when implants were
first pushed none did.
--
To bring this back
Its almost absurd one would justify an implant by stating we have no
data either way.
--
Old 08-26-2015, 08:27 PM   #21
There are never going to be guarantees with implants, nor probably
agreement about whether they're appropriate. All parents don't agree on
--
ending a child to an expensive school is no guarantee they'll get into
Harvard, implants don't guarantee that a child will be more successful,
but nothing else will either. That isn't going to stop parents from
--
have a better life.
Unless implants are shown to not be effective for any child, or to be
very dangerous, why would parents not consider them just as they do
--
kateboard and do all kinds of things more risky than getting
implanted.
Some parents are going to decide to have their children implanted and
that's not likely to change as long as at least some children benefit
--
probably get a better response too. This is about parents considering
implants for kids
« Previous Thread | Next Thread »
--
Forum Jump
[    Hearing Aids & Cochlear Implants___] Go
All times are GMT -5. The time now is 01:18 PM.
Go Back   AllDeaf.com > Deaf Interests > Hearing Aids & Cochlear
Implants
Reload this Page Considering implant for your child
LIKE AllDeaf on Facebook FOLLOW AllDeaf on Twitter
--
Only pointing out for Nic that you are nothing but a hearie who lost
it, then got implanted.
You are not Deaf and know nothing about it.
--
I don't think HOH=ME ever claimed to be anything other than someone
that had hearing, lost it, and then was implanted. He then goes on to
ay that he is grateful for the ability to hear again and recommends it
--
His post was insulting,and condescending, dripping deep in audism...he
also says so what regarding implanting our babies, essentially he
trolled the thread...he offered no valube imput on the issue, he
--
Referring to deaf babies as "ours." Other people's deaf babies aren't
"yours" and you don't get to have a say in whether they get implanted
or not; their parents do. It's a bit creepy when you imply that you
know what's best for other people's deaf kids just because you also
can't hear. You don't like it when babies get cochlear implants - we
get that. But yeah, so what? Parents get to choose the culture their
--
glasses or would you wear them if your sight required it????
No, this forum is Hearing Aids and Cochlear Implants .
HOH-ME is offline   Reply With Quote
--
One mother in a parent of deaf and hoh children FB group claim that it
is because of her son's 2nd implant, he is in advanced math.
Ok if people are implanting babies which is their business BUT that
view that this mother holds will be rampant in which will leave those
deaf who don't have implants with a stigma as if they aren't as smart,
functioning, or as valued as those who have implants.
These audist views that does nobody any good and I see examples of
--
I was referring to the entire forum. It is divided into sections one of
which is Hearing Aids and Cochlear Implants. I do feel that these
comments you have made here are in the right section.
--
Isn't the name of this forum "ALLDEAF.Com"?
Thus "presumably" the DEAF who use a Cochlear Implant can be part and
not be considered- "trolling?
Get Real:Implanted Sunnybrook/Toronto -Advanced Bionics-Harmony
activated Aug/07
--
minoority. Be insulted all you want..meh
and you don't get to have a say in whether they get implanted or not;
their parents do.r.
--
Thats not the reason at all....what is very creepy, is the religious
devotion you share in frothing at the mouth visions of implantng our
babies....yeah this assimilation is creepy...
You don't like it when babies get cochlear implants - we get that. But
yeah, so what? r.
--
their babies isn't any of my business and isn't any of yours, either.
what is happining, the implants the assimilation, the attacks on my
people and culture, our language..is My bussiness.
--
Poo on that.
I saw someone wondering about people who implanted early. I have an
ancedotal case for that. I'm a massage therapist, when I was going to
--
it exactly for what it is..."oralisms final solution"....we do not see
it at all in the best interests for our babies implanted against there
will..it certainly IS very much in the interests and profit of the ci
--
article was balanced....but i know to others it msy seem a bit
extreme...its certainly not more.extreme then the push to implant...if
anything the stand not to early implant is a more moderate stand then
the rush to implant.
Good to see....
--
Forum Jump
[    Hearing Aids & Cochlear Implants___] Go
All times are GMT -5. The time now is 01:18 PM.
Implant Blog - RSS

Katie-Louise's Cochlear Implant Blog
A Positive Journey with an Advanced Bionics Cochlear Implant!
Tuesday, 29 April 2014
Advanced Bionics Family Fun Day
Are you considering in getting a cochlear implant? Not sure which brand
to go for? Why not spend a day at Sherwood centre parc, Nottingham to
--
http://www.advancedbionics.com/
Are you deaf....Considering a Cochlear implant? Needs some
Advice/Support....Connect to a mentor here:
--
Can you believe it 3 years ago I went under the knife to get this
amazing cochlear implant. I was so nervous and I almost changed my
mind. I am so glad I went ahead with it. There nothing to be afraid of
--
of friends especially world wide after creating this blog and I have
met up with a lot of people who are now waiting to get an implant or
has just had them. There journey seems to be going so well just like
--
topped blogging. So as from now, I will do my best to keep posting to
increase the awareness of what a Cochlear Implant is and also to share
my personal experience with wearing a Advanced Bionics Device!
--
Saturday, 2 October 2010
2010 Top Cochlear Implant Award!
I would like to say a big thanks to those that has nominated me for the
Top 15 Cochlear Implant Blog award. Doing this blog has inspired a lot
of candidate, cochlear implant users.
A BIG thank you to Nottingham Cochlear Implant team, Advanced Bionics,
friends and family for supporting me through this an amazing journey.
--
'Medical Assistant School'
Top Cochlear Implants Blog
Thank you all for nominating me and for reading this blog.
--
3 months ago
Sound of Cochlear Implant
7 months ago
--
1 year ago
Anna's Sound Journey by Freedom Cochlear Implant
2nd day with N6 - in London
--
ourselves out there and WRITE.....
Sarah's Cochlear Implant
Trialling a Neptune
--
Phone and Music with CI nearly 2years on
Kirsty's Cochlear Implant
NOT HEARING VERY WELL
--
July 2010
Amanda's Cochlear Implant Journey
Amanda update-March 10, 2010
Kate's Cochlear Implant
My final post? 7 months on
--
Today's Appointment
The journey of Claire's cochlear implant
3-monthly tune up
--
Blog:
Katie's Cochlear Implant Journey
Topics:
--
html hit counter
Advice/Support From Experience Cochlear Implant users
Click the logo to find out more!
I was implanted in April '08. I have written about my experiences from
times to implantation to the present day. This would be a useful
resource for anybody who has been recently implanted or is going
through the assessements. I suggest you to look back at the blogpost in
--
Me and My Idol (Gareth Gates)
Useful Cochlear Implants websites
Me and the squad in Germany
Implant Blog - RSS

Katie-Louise's Cochlear Implant Blog
A Positive Journey with an Advanced Bionics Cochlear Implant!
Friday, 1 October 2010
--
doing some more camp work!
and finally - progress on my COCHLEAR IMPLANT.
As you all know I had a postive experince so far with my cochlear
implant having new CI moment hearing new things all the time. Advanced
Bionics has become part of me and it is something that made my life
much more easier. My confident has grown with communicating with other
and of course before the implant I refused to use my voice and now I am
forever talking; that's what my friends and family says. ha ha.
Now I have had my cochlear implant for just over two year now which has
gone ever so quick! I have still got a lot of things that I need to
--
mentor so If you would like to ask any question about my cochlear
implant journey feel free to post me a message on this link and I'll
get back to you as soon as I can.
--
BEA UK - Get Connected with a Mentor
Bionic Ear Association UK - Get connected to a cochlear implant
community
--
by providing valuable information, education, awareness, and guidance
on cochlear implants. Staffed with a committed team of audiologists and
cochlear implant recipients, the BEA offers important support services
to help you hear your best.
The United Kingdom Bionic Ear Association (BEA/UK) offers you a
community of cochlear implant recipients, families, volunteers and
taff, all from the UK, who can support you throughout your hearing
journey.
Connecting with other cochlear implant recipients and families is an
important part of the hearing journey. Through BEA UK you can connect
with other cochlear implant recipients or parents, who can assist you
in navigating the process of choosing and living with cochlear
implants.
Read our recipient stories, find a mentor, check out our online
--
Advanced Bionics UK Chat-Room/Facebook!
Are you a candidate and is going through your Cochlear Implant
assessment but has all these question that you would like to ask and
--
off on you during the day?
My cochlear implant battery has never ever died on me through the day,
every morning I put on a fully charged battery and it would normally
last me a whole day (roughly12 hrs) and if I stay up later, I don't
normally replace it and just leave the implant on my head while the
battery flat.
Today, for the first time since I have had my Cochlear Implant, the
battery power actually went dead on me while at university. I
--
that I do lip-read a lot. I did had to warn my friends that my cochlear
implant has stopped working that they would need to tap me for my
attention rather than calling my name out. Thanks to my lip-reading
--
processor that afternoon actually reminded me what it used to be like
before my cochlear implant and how hard I had to concentrate. From now
on.... I must check the led light before putting my processor on. I
hate being without my cochlear implant now, it really does mean a lot
to me and when I have it on I really do relaxs more.
--
they will finally say 'YES' to let us adults go "BILATERAL." I really
do want a 2nd cochlear implant and I hope to get it before I completed
my degree so I could go straight into teaching without havin' to worry
--
3 months ago
Sound of Cochlear Implant
7 months ago
--
1 year ago
Anna's Sound Journey by Freedom Cochlear Implant
2nd day with N6 - in London
--
ourselves out there and WRITE.....
Sarah's Cochlear Implant
Trialling a Neptune
--
Phone and Music with CI nearly 2years on
Kirsty's Cochlear Implant
NOT HEARING VERY WELL
--
July 2010
Amanda's Cochlear Implant Journey
Amanda update-March 10, 2010
Kate's Cochlear Implant
My final post? 7 months on
--
Today's Appointment
The journey of Claire's cochlear implant
3-monthly tune up
--
Blog:
Katie's Cochlear Implant Journey
Topics:
--
html hit counter
Advice/Support From Experience Cochlear Implant users
Click the logo to find out more!
I was implanted in April '08. I have written about my experiences from
times to implantation to the present day. This would be a useful
resource for anybody who has been recently implanted or is going
through the assessements. I suggest you to look back at the blogpost in
--
Top 15 Blog Award
Top Cochlear Implants Blog
A New Year 2009 Counter To See Where My Visitors are From?
--
Me and My Idol (Gareth Gates)
Useful Cochlear Implants websites
Me and the squad in Germany
Implant Blog - RSS

Katie-Louise's Cochlear Implant Blog
A Positive Journey with an Advanced Bionics Cochlear Implant!
Friday, 11 December 2009
2nd Xmas with my Cochlear Implant
14 days till Xmas and still I haven't finished all my Xmas shopping.
--
So, what have I been upto over the past few weeks? well, I have had a
few trip to Ropewalk Cochlear Implant centre; I had a slight problem
with my cochlear implant - struggling to control the sounds and feeling
uncomfortable in loud and quiet situation. Somehow when I'm in lecture
--
and is not seems to be having an problems at all - no more trips to the
Implant Centre till my 2year appointment, I hope.
Recently I went to the Ear Foundation Xmas Social and for the 2nd time
--
Thursday, 3 December 2009
Styling Your Cochlear Implant (Getting Ready for Xmas)
Hey all,
--
thought they look so cute then as I looked at them I came up with an
idea - lets pimp out my processor into an christmassy Cochlear Implant.
I knew I had a party to go to this weekend, so I thought, why not I'll
--
I just like to say sorry to thoses that has sent me an e-mail with your
question about the cochlear implants in the past month or so and hasn't
yet had a reply from me. I've been ever so busy at university working
--
Anyway, thought I'd share this with you - I wouldn't say its a good
thing, but everyone who has had a cochlear implant has bound to had
omething stuck on their coil by accident or someone would put it on,
--
Wearing a 'Huggie' with my C.I has made a big different to me. Even
though I had a smaller T-mic, the implant would still fly off. So,
wearing a 'Huggie' with your implant to wrap round your ears should
help you
--
headband. I place the band over my head by but putting the coil wire
underneath. That also stops the implant from falling off and of course
the coil doesn't come off as much as it used to. Placing the handband
--
ears. I found that big material head bands tend to make a lot of
rustling noise and it still made the implant falls off.
I wear the band in all the sports I play all sort of sports such as
--
(pictured below) This can be another way to prevent your cochlear
implant from falling off.
Sometimes while playing sports, you don't always hear the whistle even
if your wearing your implant, as you too busy focusing on the game.
There has been times where I was playing football and I had the ball,
--
My mum has found this , great to know that they are looking to get an
actor with a Cochlear Implant!
BBC searches for CI recipient to play lead role in new drama
--
professional actors in Dublin.
In the drama, the character has a cochlear implant and is learning to
talk, so the girl should ideally have some speech.
--
Not only I have been working. Advanced Bionics/Manchester cochlear
implant centre have asked me to join the football teens day that they
had in manchester. Good time, it was great to meet the young teenagers
--
It was nice to relax on the beach and enjoy the sunshine - the night
entertainment was great too. Thanks to my implant, I am able to
understand it more than I used to. I did have an accident with my
implant - lost 2 batteries which fall out of Richard bag which had a
hole in. Another call to the implant centre, grr.
There was one night were the was a party in the dark, so we all had
--
3 months ago
Sound of Cochlear Implant
7 months ago
--
1 year ago
Anna's Sound Journey by Freedom Cochlear Implant
2nd day with N6 - in London
--
ourselves out there and WRITE.....
Sarah's Cochlear Implant
Trialling a Neptune
--
Phone and Music with CI nearly 2years on
Kirsty's Cochlear Implant
NOT HEARING VERY WELL
--
July 2010
Amanda's Cochlear Implant Journey
Amanda update-March 10, 2010
Kate's Cochlear Implant
My final post? 7 months on
--
Today's Appointment
The journey of Claire's cochlear implant
3-monthly tune up
--
Blog:
Katie's Cochlear Implant Journey
Topics:
--
html hit counter
Advice/Support From Experience Cochlear Implant users
Click the logo to find out more!
I was implanted in April '08. I have written about my experiences from
times to implantation to the present day. This would be a useful
resource for anybody who has been recently implanted or is going
through the assessements. I suggest you to look back at the blogpost in
--
Top 15 Blog Award
Top Cochlear Implants Blog
A New Year 2009 Counter To See Where My Visitors are From?
--
Me and My Idol (Gareth Gates)
Useful Cochlear Implants websites
Me and the squad in Germany
Implant Blog - RSS

Katie-Louise's Cochlear Implant Blog
A Positive Journey with an Advanced Bionics Cochlear Implant!
Thursday, 23 July 2009
--
following the ball and If you lost where the ball is, then you have
just missed out on some information. Before I got implanted with this
wonderful Advanced Bionic device, it was so hard to keep up . when I
--
to repeat.
After having a cochlear implant, lip-reading has become alot easisr! I
don't get tired so quick and I do get more involved. There are times
--
in the middle - I always hear and keep up with the people on my
implanted side and tend to miss some information on my non-implant
ide. I do try and make sure I sit on the edge, making sure all my
friends are on my implant side. It does help, but still not all places
have "C" shapes seating. They can be round and that makes it worst when
there is no edges to make sure everyone sits where your implanted side
is.
Maybe a 2nd implant would help in that situation? Has anyone out there
notices the different in group situation after getting your 2nd CI
--
thought If I ever did do the show - it would be good to tell people
what a cochlear implant is. It could make Advanced Bionic more visable
and maybe more people would be aware on a cochlear implant is.
Another question my dad ask me. If I ever won 10,000 pound, what would
I spend it on? I said I would pay to have a second cochlear implant
done and my dad was just shocked and couldn't believe I would choose to
have that done instead of something esle like a new car or something.
Having a second implant would mean alot to me. Waiting till the N.I.C.E
report change in 2011 is a long time to wait and it could take forever
--
Looking for advice and support to help you with decision to get a
cochlear implant or not? How about checking these useful sites;
Advanced Bionic (the name of my cochlear implant)
Contact Network
Ear Foundation
Cochlear Implant User Group
British Cochlear
--
I have met during my assessment at the Ear foudation to help me decide
wheather I wanted a cochlear implant or not. Oh and there was Elaine
from CIUG who I have spoken to loads of time asking her tons of
question about the implant. I didn't realise they would be there
When I got to the Mellor Centre, I signed in and went to my bedroom and
--
got a drink, I spotted my great old audiologist that did my assessment
to get a cochlear implant and who has left me for her new job just
before my switch on, but hey at least shes working for the 'RIGHT'
--
thanks tiz for the hint :-P They all know how crazy I am with the
colours on my implant and what I did to one of the cover (yes, spraying
it pink) Thats me and I love to stay in fashion, not just with clothes,
but with my implant too.
The next morning, I was ment to go for a run, but after seening the
--
learnt so much, and still I can't believe how much I didn't know even
though I had the cochlear implant for a year and there is still so much
more to learn. I was actually impressed with the future equipments for
--
lip-read, so I could keep up with what the others were talking about
while my implant were off. After having the ear mould made, I also made
a bouncing ball with the left overs lol. I actually gave that to
--
quickly, some take a while. But for me, I am still not 100% confident
and yes, it has only been a year since I've been implanted.
It could take some users months or even years till they could get
--
history of deafness, or sound menmory! Just because you know someone
who had the implant around the same time as you, or maybe a few months
later and can use the phone quite well, it doesn't mean they are better
--
I once tried calling my granddad at Christmas for the first time and at
the time I have only had my implant for six months.. I didn't actually
hear him very well or understood him perfectly. My mum stood next to
--
The event went so well, the weather was so nice and it was great to
meet even more people with Cochlear Implant! It is nice to see more and
more implant users around my age and to share each of our experience!
So, I would like to say a BIG thanks to Sue and the Ear foundation crew
--
forward to attend more of your events. If you need any advise or any
upport with anything to do with Cochlear Implant I would recommend you
all to check out there site on www.earfoundation.org
--
Well, exam's are finally over! This year was the first time I ever done
an exam with my implant. Every year, the lecture always tell everyone
to sit quietly at their desk, no talking and to fill in all the
--
me! How embarrasing
This year has been totoally different! Thanks to my implant, I was able
to hear myself and was able to BE quiet. In the exam room, everything
--
hoot it! It was sooooooo ANNOYING! Eventually I did had to take my
implant so I could get some peace and concentrate! Can anyone guess
what it is?
--
3 months ago
Sound of Cochlear Implant
7 months ago
--
1 year ago
Anna's Sound Journey by Freedom Cochlear Implant
2nd day with N6 - in London
--
ourselves out there and WRITE.....
Sarah's Cochlear Implant
Trialling a Neptune
--
Phone and Music with CI nearly 2years on
Kirsty's Cochlear Implant
NOT HEARING VERY WELL
--
July 2010
Amanda's Cochlear Implant Journey
Amanda update-March 10, 2010
Kate's Cochlear Implant
My final post? 7 months on
--
Today's Appointment
The journey of Claire's cochlear implant
3-monthly tune up
--
Blog:
Katie's Cochlear Implant Journey
Topics:
--
html hit counter
Advice/Support From Experience Cochlear Implant users
Click the logo to find out more!
I was implanted in April '08. I have written about my experiences from
times to implantation to the present day. This would be a useful
resource for anybody who has been recently implanted or is going
through the assessements. I suggest you to look back at the blogpost in
--
Top 15 Blog Award
Top Cochlear Implants Blog
A New Year 2009 Counter To See Where My Visitors are From?
--
Me and My Idol (Gareth Gates)
Useful Cochlear Implants websites
Me and the squad in Germany
Implant Blog - RSS

Katie-Louise's Cochlear Implant Blog
A Positive Journey with an Advanced Bionics Cochlear Implant!
Monday, 11 May 2009
--
Kirsty, a friend who lives about 45 minutes away had has her cochlear
implant for nearly 6 months now.
She was born deaf and had wore hearing aids until April 2007 when she
--
After Kirsty contacted me online, she had ask me loads of quesiton
about my experince and how the implant has helped me. We met once
before her op and I could see how hard it is for her. Kirsty, then
decided to go for an Advanced Bionic cochlear implant in Novemenber
2008 and after visiting her on the day she had the op, she was so brave
--
thing there should be a music video out there that should increase
cochlear implant awareness, there are still lot of people out there
that doesn't know what a cochlear implant is.
that is it for me, watch out for next weeks post with the BIG 1 year
--
Wednesday, 25 March 2009
2nd implant?
10 months and I am doing so well, I still can't get over of what I have
--
thinking about in the last few weeks, now that I have done so well
listening through one implant, will I do the same if I had a second
implant?
A second implant would be nice. I mean, I hear so well in my left but
the only thing is I can only hear most of the things on the left and my
--
blank; I don't see the point in wearing a hearing aid I know a 2nd
implant won't make you hear any better, but it be nice to hear from
both direction and maybe it give me a better sense of where sounds
comin from.
So, now I am hoping to have a 2nd implant to become 'Bilateral' becuase
of the N.I.C.E guidance, I think here in the UK, it would be hard for
--
now?
I thought, If I was to have a 2nd implant while I am still at early
tages, I think it might be better as my brains will continue to learn
, I am not saying it will stop (I hope not) but getting another implant
at this stage might be easier for me and gives me time to learn before
--
event which was organised by Ear Foundation and Advanced Bionic. (the
implant brand I have)
The event went so well, and it was concert by musicians who have
--
I weren't too keen on the flute. I mean, the flute was played at a high
pitch and each note gets higher and higer which felt like my implant is
about to blew off.
--
March already? Its nowbeen nearly 10 months since I have been
implanted. I can't believe how quick the year has gone; I guess life
would be alot faster if your enjoying the new hearing journey.
--
from a good distance away. Babies are loud when they cry. Sometimes it
is nice to switch your implant off when you don't want to hear him.
I remenber 3 month post activation, I was able to turn round if someone
--
3 months ago
Sound of Cochlear Implant
7 months ago
--
1 year ago
Anna's Sound Journey by Freedom Cochlear Implant
2nd day with N6 - in London
--
ourselves out there and WRITE.....
Sarah's Cochlear Implant
Trialling a Neptune
--
Phone and Music with CI nearly 2years on
Kirsty's Cochlear Implant
NOT HEARING VERY WELL
--
July 2010
Amanda's Cochlear Implant Journey
Amanda update-March 10, 2010
Kate's Cochlear Implant
My final post? 7 months on
--
Today's Appointment
The journey of Claire's cochlear implant
3-monthly tune up
--
Blog:
Katie's Cochlear Implant Journey
Topics:
--
html hit counter
Advice/Support From Experience Cochlear Implant users
Click the logo to find out more!
I was implanted in April '08. I have written about my experiences from
times to implantation to the present day. This would be a useful
resource for anybody who has been recently implanted or is going
through the assessements. I suggest you to look back at the blogpost in
--
Top 15 Blog Award
Top Cochlear Implants Blog
A New Year 2009 Counter To See Where My Visitors are From?
--
Me and My Idol (Gareth Gates)
Useful Cochlear Implants websites
Me and the squad in Germany
Implant Blog - RSS

Katie-Louise's Cochlear Implant Blog
A Positive Journey with an Advanced Bionics Cochlear Implant!
Tuesday, 3 February 2009
--
we had 30 minutes of any choices of session we chosen. I went to:
Richard - Talk more about Advanced Bionic Cochlear Implant.
This session was very interested. We talked about the futures
--
hear!
After hearing Dylan cry alot, I do tend to turn my implant right down
or go into another room for a bit till my sister or his dad sort him
--
I must say, I am sooooooo glad I don't hear anything at night time with
I put my own implant to bed, though I do feel sorry for the others.
hehe
--
To those that don't know Jennifer, she also has a blog about cochlear
implant as her stepfdaughter has one check out there blog -
http://jenniferbrunoconde.blogspot.com/
--
hear it, and I am aware what it is. I just trying to learn how to avoid
these sounds while doing work without cheating (taking the implant off)
Posted by Katie-Louise's blog at 19:30 2 comments: Links to this post
--
3 months ago
Sound of Cochlear Implant
7 months ago
--
1 year ago
Anna's Sound Journey by Freedom Cochlear Implant
2nd day with N6 - in London
--
ourselves out there and WRITE.....
Sarah's Cochlear Implant
Trialling a Neptune
--
Phone and Music with CI nearly 2years on
Kirsty's Cochlear Implant
NOT HEARING VERY WELL
--
July 2010
Amanda's Cochlear Implant Journey
Amanda update-March 10, 2010
Kate's Cochlear Implant
My final post? 7 months on
--
Today's Appointment
The journey of Claire's cochlear implant
3-monthly tune up
--
Blog:
Katie's Cochlear Implant Journey
Topics:
--
html hit counter
Advice/Support From Experience Cochlear Implant users
Click the logo to find out more!
I was implanted in April '08. I have written about my experiences from
times to implantation to the present day. This would be a useful
resource for anybody who has been recently implanted or is going
through the assessements. I suggest you to look back at the blogpost in
--
Top 15 Blog Award
Top Cochlear Implants Blog
A New Year 2009 Counter To See Where My Visitors are From?
--
Me and My Idol (Gareth Gates)
Useful Cochlear Implants websites
Me and the squad in Germany
my sent folder was overflowing with emails answering why I picked
Advanced Bionics for my cochlear implant. It seems that after a 100 or
blog. :)
--
needed that goes along with learning how to hear with a cochlear
implant and because of Hearing Journey, I got answers the second I post
a question. I wanted to be able to access the latest MRI technology
--
to emulate better hearing without further surgery. I wanted total
reliability. I wanted the implant to withstand sweating when I work out
ince I was forever killing my hearing aids. I wanted to push the
--
The T-Mic ear hook is only available with Advanced Bionics cochlear
implant system. This is not to be confused with the T-Coil, an option
that can be turned on by your audiologist on your Harmony Processor. It
--
but the old saying, never judge a book by its cover. The HiRes 90k
implant has the 16 independent computer controlled current sources
where other companies have one power source. It is like if you set up X
--
Advanced Bionics has been able to issue a total reliability report. For
the implant, it is at 99.5 on June 2008 and for the Harmony processor,
the return rate is less than 1%. I do want to point out that you want
to be worried about the reliability of both the implant and the
processor because if one stops functioning, you can't hear - point
--
which can cause the device to stop functioning. Not all of the Vendor B
implants had this problem. Advanced Bionics has since resolved this
issue by only using parts supplied by Vendor A. As a result, their
--
ecurity, AB’s patented IntelliLink™ feature will not allow a processor
loaded with the wrong program to work with your implant. You enjoy
peace of mind knowing you have the correct programs—developed
--
and parents of children recently diagnosed with hearing loss, parents
of children that have cochlear implant and audiologists. It is a huge
wealth of information as everyone rallies around for support, offers
advice, shares tips and tricks about surgery or learning how to hear
with a cochlear implant. There is a CI chat held every Thursday night
from 8pm EST til the cows come home, that you can come and talk to
other cochlear implant recipients, candidates, parents and
audiologists. Just log in to Hearing Journey and click on the chat
--
Program, that I and several other bloggers are a part of, allows
cochlear implant candidates to contact volunteer "mentors" and
communicate directly with hearing professionals. You see my smiling
--
Candidates can use the Connect to Mentor website to search for mentors
who include parents of implanted children, relatives of cochlear
recipients and adult recipients. Each mentor has a profile complete
--
(i.e., cell phone user, traveler, musician), hometown, age they were
implanted, severity of hearing loss and how they can help cochlear
implant candidates. Then, candidates can choose to "start a
conversation" with the mentor directly from their profile.
Data entered by Abbie at 2:19:00 PM 22 comments
Catagories: Advanced Bionics, Cochlear Implant, Harmony Processor,
T-Mic
--
Click here to make it bigger.
You will notice that my left ear before I was implanted was 0% across
the board. This was an ear that has been unstimulated for over 15
--
cored 64%. I was downright impressed with my scores. Now, I was
thinking that the benefit of a cochlear implant can really take up to a
year especially on an ear that has been unstimulated for so long.
--
totally giving credit to the substantiated claims that surgeons advice
about implanting a better ear. They apparently know what they are
talking about. :) It means that it is less stressful and the learning
--
Data entered by Abbie at 3:32:00 PM 2 comments
Catagories: Bilateral Cochlear Implant, Bilateral Mappings, Cochlear
Implant, Mappings
Northeast Cochlear Implant Convention 2009
I will be attending the Northeast Cochlear Implant Convention 2009 on
July 10 - 12, 2009 at the Sturbridge Host Hotel & Conference Center in
--
You are warmly invited to attend the Seventh Biennial Northeast
Cochlear Implant Convention, to he held July 10-12, 2009 at the
Sturbridge Host Hotel in Sturbridge, MA. On-line registration or
--
chool, and on to college. And incidentally, how are you or your
child doing with the implant? How nice to hear that things are going
well!
--
classroom acoustics, the rising performance levels of cochlear
implants and assistive listening devices. The theme “Enhancing
Communication” reflected the many new technologies and approaches
--
and at home..
“We Hear the World” celebrates the many examples of cochlear implant
users participating fully and independently in the world around
--
respond to needs that we learn about. Like everyone else, cochlear
implant users experience passages in their lives. High school
tudents leave home for college. College students enter the
workforce. The generation born after WWII leaves the workforce for
retirement, and many of those who received the earliest implants are
now golden agers. New technologies and communication approaches can
--
Data entered by Abbie at 9:25:00 AM 2 comments
Catagories: Cochlear Implant, Convention, Josh Swiller, Northeast
Cochlear Implant Convention 2009
Thursday, April 30, 2009
--
developing the Internet is alright in my book. He is hard of hearing
and his wife is a recipient of a cochlear implant. I can't wait to hear
Cerf's up!
--
I am going to be representing Advanced Bionics on Bilateral Cochlear
Implant panel that my buddy Wayne Roorda is hosting on Saturday, June
20th at 10:00. This panel will be made up of recipients of all brands.
I encourage that if you have any questions or concerns regarding
bilateral cochlear implantation and you are attending the convention,
hoot an email to cipanel09@yahoo.com with your questions.
--
I will be volunteering at the Advanced Bionic booth just waiting for
people to pick my geeky brain about cochlear implants and the Harmony
processor.
--
If you are unable to attend our event and would like information
about cochlear implants, contact The Bionic Ear Association at
hear@AdvancedBionics.com or call 1.866.844.HEAR (4327).
--
Data entered by Abbie at 6:00:00 PM 0 comments
Catagories: Advanced Bionics, Cochlear Implant, Seminar
Sunday, April 12, 2009
--
understanding more than I thought. I took me several weeks to
understand numbers with the old implant. The last time I could
understand anything on my right ear on the telephone was February 22,
--
passenger seat and I could understand him without reading his lips even
when night descended. Since my first implant was on my left ear, there
was always a degree of difficulty with hearing people in the passenger
--
Catagories: Auditory Rehabilitation, Bilateal Mappings, Bilateral
Cochlear Implant, Mappings
Friday, April 03, 2009
--
took less than an hour. My audiologist didn’t have to explain anything
to me since I am a seasoned pro with the implant business. :) Since I
went through this process already, I was very conservative volume wise.
--
120 a whirl – at work. I am sitting here with my hair down cleverly
disguising two cochlear implants - the new one attached and the old one
with the coil hanging just in case I need to use the telephone. it
--
Data entered by Abbie at 1:26:00 PM 15 comments
Catagories: Activation, Bilateral Cochlear Implant, Bilateral Cochlear
Implant Activation, Cochlear Implant Activation
Older Posts Home
Subscribe to: Posts (Atom)
Cochlear Implant Activation Video Captioned
[EMBED]
--
the lovely Garden State. Simply described, I am a profoundly
deaf 28 year SWF who has a cochlear implant as of August 27,
2007. A date I will never forget. My vocations are a blend of
--
Online Listening Practice Websites
Cochlear Implant Blogs
Five String Guitar
--
A more silent world
Deaf TV Show - Discussing Cochlear Implants
10 months ago
--
Michael Chorost
Getting insurance coverage for new cochlear implant processors
Katie-Louise's Cochlear Implant Blog
Advanced Bionics Family Fun Day
--
Hearing Pocket
Cochlear implants — with no exterior hardware – MIT News Office
Becoming Deaf in Norway 2007
--
The Bionic Sound Project
Vanderbilt University Cochlear Implant Mapping Process
Bravo Rod
--
MY CI STORY*
upgrade, implant #2 and a CI moment
ASL-Cochlear Implant Community
Jen's Cochlear Implant Journey
Thoughts on the Cochlear Recall
--
I'm speaking in Wheaton, IL, Dec 7, 2010
Confessions of a Cochlear Implantee
Radio & Audiobooks - a long awaited update
IRV STARR'S COCHLEAR IMPLANT JOURNEY
UPDATE
--
Going Bluetooth
The journey of Claire's cochlear implant
3-monthly tune up
--
MOVE OVER TO NEW BLOG PLEASE
Countdown to Implant
ACTIVATED!
--
Not Deaf
Cochlear Implant Journey
Activation Day - August 12th
Amazing Sounds with Cochlear Implant
Celebrating our 5th years...
--
vLog on "The Greatest Irony"
All Things Related To Cochlear Implants
Cochlear implants paid for by insurance policies in the US
Ear Ye Ear Ye
--
Nancy's Blog
Cochlear Implant Online
Living with a Cochlear Implant
the DeafBlog
--
Billy Koch - Where Billy Rambles On and On...
Rachel's Cochlear Implant Blog
Just Another Cyborg
--
Reading Machine
An American Mom in Tuscany: Jordan's Cochlear Implant Story
And the winners are....!!!!
--
kauantyler
Erin Toes and her Cochlear Implant Journey
It's Not Fair.
--
Prayers Requested
Amanda's Cochlear Implant Journey
Amanda update-March 10, 2010
blog-worthy is that I am now able to hear and understand on it A LOT
better by using my Cochlear Implant!! Before, I've had to use my
Hearing Aid and it would always be a hassel because I would have to be
--
The jobs I never thought I'd have... are the jobs I'm doing!
Before I got my implant, there were some jobs I thought I would NEVER
be able to have and I thought I was going to miss out on the jobs that
--
But since I’ve started college and become more comfortable with my
implant/hearing… I’m working one of the jobs I thought I would NEVER
have which is working the front desk as a receptionist.
--
I’m able to do this and it makes me that much more grateful for the
opportunities I’m now experiencing because of my Cochlear Implant and
having gone through Auditory Verbal Therapy. Without them… I don’t know
--
Body-Worn Processor can come in handy
My Grandpa has had the implant for about 2 years now and seems to be
progressing. But unfortunately, because of his age and health, his
--
environments so we have to make sure we talk slow for him.
Since he has gotten the implant, we have been noticing that he has a
hard time managing his BTE processor, oxygen tube and glasses all on
--
An article from Advanced Bionics:
Advanced Bionics is connecting cochlear implant recipients and
candidates from across the country through its new "Connect to Mentor"
--
community of its kind, Advanced Bionics, the only U.S.-based
manufacturer of cochlear implants (or "bionic ears"), is connecting
cochlear recipients and candidates from across the country through its
new "Connect to Mentor" Web site. The new site, part of the BEA (Bionic
Ear Association) Mentor Program, allows cochlear implant candidates to
contact volunteer "mentors" and communicate directly with hearing
--
this Web site, the company realized that its most valuable assets are
cochlear implant recipients themselves. This site allows them to share
their experiences, offer advice to others who might be thinking of
being implanted, and help them navigate the process from surgery to
entering the hearing world."
--
that came with it, I would just plug in my direct connect cord from my
implant to the recorder so I could hear it better. It was great!
But suprisingly, this place was more advanced and had personal
--
BEA Mentor Training Weekend with about 40 other people who also have
the Advanced Bionics Cochlear Implant or someone else in their family
does. It was so much fun learning about the company, about the things
--
hearing about their hearing journey and what it was like for them to go
through the process of getting the implant. It’s amazing to me to hear
all the stories of what it was like, because it seems like we all have
--
back for a couple months for some more therapy.
Advanced Bionics, as you probably already know, is the Cochlear Implant
company I have… best choice I ever made! This is the link to their
--
A Flock of Geese
My friend John, who just got the implant, was telling me today about
how he heard a flock of geese for the first time!
--
We weren't sure about how he was going to do up there with the Cochlear
Implant and headphones.... but surprisingly he could hear everything
and could have a conversation over the headset! So that was great
--
discrimination got worse in 2005, which is when I got my
Advanced Bionics Cochlear Implant. Now I wear the CI on my right
ear and a hearing aid on my left. I'm a student at North Georgia
--
"I enjoy mentoring people who are going through the same situations
that I went through in deciding to get the implant, going through the
urgery, and learning how to hear all over again or even for the first
time. I got my CI at the end of my freshman year in High School so I
can remember what it was like before I got the implant and how my life
has changed ever since.
--
brother Jonathan and my Grandpa Sam, both of whom have the CI as well.
My brother was implanted at age 5 and my grandpa was implanted at age
85."
-Click Picture to learn more!-
With my Cochlear Implant, I can:
"Be a normal teenager/young adult and enjoy my college experience with
involved with school clubs and pretty much stayed to myself.
--Summer-– I got the Cochlear Implant.
10th Grade – I had to relearn sounds all over again and get used to
life with the Cochlear Implant - 8 hour batteries, no leaning up
against the fridge or the car, dealing with hearing my dogs licking
--
Hospital.
11th Grade - I got the new Harmony Cochlear Implant. I was hearing
great and loved being able to hear and talk to my friends. I made
--
Me with some friends after Graduation
Now, as you can probably tell, before I got the Implant my life was
pretty boring and I was a bit more kept to myself because I wasn’t
--
couldn’t hear or understand what everyone was saying.
But once I got the implant, my life began to change. I was hearing so
much better, I started becoming more confident in myself, became more
--
--*--*--*--*--*--*--*--*--*--*--*--*--*--*--*--*--*--*--
You know, recently someone messaged me about the implant and how he
couldn't decide on whether to get the implant now or wait another 5 or
10 years until they come out with something even better.
--
with newer upgrades BUT they are keeping the internal piece the same so
people can upgrade their implants for the newer style. Like with me, I
was implanted the Auria. But becuase they invented the new processor
(keeping the internal piece the same) I was able to upgrade to the new
--
intelligence/technology."
And now, apparently she is going to have her implant removed because of
this... : /
--
before. He said he could understand a little bit better then when he
had two hearing aids so he continued to work with the implant to help
make it better.
--
- the president's debate on the TV without closed captians
He's still learning to cope with the implant and trying to figure out
which hook he likes best, which programs to use, how to wear his hats
with the implant, how to keep the implant on with the oxygen tube and
glasses, etc. He's been having difficulty with keeping the implant on
with the tubing for his oxygen and glasses becuase they all hook on to
--
about his experiences and everything that he's going through. And of
course, everyone is just AMAZED with the Cochlear Implant and wishes
they could get one! :)
Here are some pictures of him and the implant...
He's been to 2 mappings so far and is continueing to progress really
--
The CI runs in the family...
My Grandpa got the Advanced Bionics Cochlear Implant last Wednesday!
He got the new Harmony and we are all waiting anxiously for the turn on
--
As you can tell from the pictures, we were ALL very EXCITED about him
getting the implant! Before, he couldn't hear anything and it was
getting very difficult when we tried to talk to him. So we're hoping
--
all talk to my grandpa normal again! :)
Congratulations Papa, you finally got the implant!! :)
Now we have three people in the family that has the implant (me, my
brother and my grandpa)... and hoepfully my dad will be getting one
--
Can you hear me now?!
It always cracks me up whenever I take off my implant to show my
hearing friends and they try to put it on to see if they can hear from
--
"headphone set" and they try to stick it in their ear to try to hear
from it!!! But then I show them how it connects to my implant and you
can see a light bulb pop up above their head!! :P
I love doing that to my friends.... it cracks me up! :)
Only AWESOME people get to hear out of the Cochlear Implants!! hehe :D
Posted by Samantha Brilling 1 comment:
--
My brother is also doing good - he's enjoying his sophomore year. His
implant is doing really good too - he had a rough start from the new
implant but now he's understanding really well and calls me on the
phone like all the time! :) So that definitly shows he's improving!!
--
2005, my hearing started to deteriorate and I went through major
urgery to get a Cochlear Implant. The cochlear implant is like a more
“high-tech implantable hearing aid” which helps me to hear even better.
But along with getting the new cochlear implant, I had to relearn
ounds all over again while I was still going to high school, making
--
But yeah.... I don't know what else to say at this point. Jonathan and
I are both doing great in school, clubs, and with our implants. This
year, Jonathan and I are also actually officers for Key Club which is
--
taught me to hear and speak.
The next one is the homepage for Advanced Bionics, the implant company
that I have (and ABSOLUTLY LOVE!).
And the others are friends with Cochlear Implants and AVC graduates
from the center I graduated from. They vary in ages, so you get a wide
variety of points of views and lifestyles with the Cochlear Implants.
But they're all really good, so if you're interested...check them out
--
hearing, and what-not. And of course my mom told him my awesome story
with the implant and how I was born deaf and how I can now hear and
peak...and of course he was just blown away and couldn't believe that
--
We LOVE our Direct Connect!
Hey - Just thought you might enjoy a picture of the implant with the
direct connet. We went hiking this weekend in North Carolina and so my
--
I won't go anywhere without it!! haha : )
Here is a picture of my brother with his implant and the direct connect
attacted to it.
--
headphone set for the Advanced Bionics users. Its the black cord that
hangs down from the front of the implant that connects to the ipod or
to whatever you're listening to (cell phone, ipod, computer, mp3
player, etc.)...
And just another thing to notice...my brother got his implant about a
month and a half ago and his hair and skin is already back to normal! I
--
charging at night, making sure I had my batteries with me and what-not.
But now, I just use the one on my implant and I’m good for the WHOLE
DAY! I still carry one battery with me as an emergency backup if I need
--
been a rough few months for my younger brother, Jonathan (16). At the
end of May, his C1 internal implant (after 9 ½ years of having it)
failed. So after the “confirmation” of the device failure he went into
--
people. Its been about 2 months and he’s now hearing fine! I think
because he had the implant for the last 9 ½ years in the same ear, the
process of understanding with the new one was quicker and easier for
--
But after this rough and emotional summer, he’s now really liking the
implant and seems to be hearing great!
He wears the new color caps, loves the direct-connect to listen to his
--
So now, that my brother and I both have the new harmony we have fun
with sharing the new color caps and jazzing up our implants!
Now, we're both stylish AB Harmony Implant users!! haha : )
Here is a picture of me and Jonathan swing dancing at a local concert a
--
the military. Now, you're probably confused and wondering why he went
off to the military academy when he JUST got the implant... well he
actually signed up before the imlant failed and nothing was going to
top him from going (even the implant failure). And much to our
urprise, the teachers and sargents were all really cool with him about
the implant and really worked with him! He took a whole years-worth of
Algebra II in 5 weeks ( and PASSED) and had a great time playing sports
--
because I felt like I was loosing most of what people are saying. So we
changed my settings and put my implant in the cleaner (wow-that cleaner
thing really makes a difference! lol). So right now my settings are set
--
I hate changing the programs throughout the day because for some reason
it takes so long for the implant to switch over. And by the time I
witch over, I’ve already missed a lot. But I think that that’s
--
also I’m taking Swing Dance Lessons! My junior year has definitely been
the best so far, and it’s all because of my implant! My freshman year
ucked because I had hearing aids (Superos by Phonak), and missed A
LOT. Then my sophomore year, I was just getting the implant and I was
trying to get used to it. And now, it’s the end of my junior year and
--
I’m also taking Swing Dance Lessons which is A LOT of fun! My brother
is actually my swing dance partner (he also has the implant)! We’re not
as good as the dancers on Dancing with the Stars (…not yet at least!
--
all the jazz and swing dance music! ; )
So yeah, life is going good…I love my implant! I’m definitely enjoying
my life a lot more!! I’m making better grades, hearing more things,
--
good questions and I figured they might be helpful to you....so enjoy!
1. What age were you when you received the Implant?
I got the implant in april of 2005 when I was just turning 16 years
old.
2. Has Getting the implant limited what you can do?
Yes, there are some activites that I have to avoid now becuase I have
the implant, for example different things with magnetic fiels such as
ome rollar coasters, MRI's, and plastic slides.
3. How does the Implant help you with your daily life?
The implant helps me to hear no matter where I am, such as the
cafeteria, outside, at home, or even on the phone. I wasn't functioning
good with two hearing aids, so thats why I got the implant. And now I
can hear alot more and its helped me to understand people, music and
--
4. Is it noticeable to other people when you first meet them?
No, becuase the cochlear implant is a small device that sits behind my
ear. And being that I have longer hair, its hard to see it because its
being hid. Plus, people don't "look" for the implant becuase they don't
realize that I'm deaf when they meet me because my speech quality is so
--
to where I don't lip read or use sign language.
5. How has the implant affected your life?
Yes, dramtically. With it my grades have gone up becuase I can hear
--
batteries go dead, I can not hear a thing and I'm in a silent world.
6. If you had not gotten the implant how would your life be different?
If I had not gotten the implant, I would not have been involved with
the clubs, volunteering, and plus I probably wouldn't be at the public
chool that I am now. I also wouldn't have been able to do some things
uch as going to concerts, movies, and plays. Without the implant, I
would have very few friends, I wouldn't be as socialble and I wouldn't
--
But yeah, it was a short survey but it had some interesting points
about the implant...
December 6, 2006
--
I have my speech which will last a lifetime (thanks to AVC) and my new
high-tech Cochlear Implant which will also last me forever!! hehe
So now, I am a very bright and shiny chandelier!!!! : )
--
never thought I'd need it for something else.
So for all of you who have the implant....get the Direct Connect!!! You
never know when you'll need it!!!
--
Update
Well things are going good with me and my Implant. I'm a Junior in High
School and school is going great! I'm aceing all of my classes, which
--
That was pretty interesting....apparently we were really good!! : )
They asked us questions about how we deal with the implant at school,
the differences between the Hearing Aid and the Implant, Our favorite
and least favorite things about the implant, etc. so I guess that went
well. I was glad that we were there to help answer questions!
--
telling me everything I've got to do, etc. And we come in front of the
OR room where Dr. Todd does his implant surgerys. And June was getting
ready to tell me this whole "speel" about what the cochelar implant is
and what its for. And immediatly I bursted out "I GOT ONE!!". hahaha, I
--
65 Quiet 100%
So now, I've been wearing only my implant a lot more. I've been more
comfortable with it! I mean its still weird not getting any sounds out
--
Questions and Answers...
I’ve had some questions about the last post on my hair and the implant,
Question: Do you wear your implant on top of your hair or underneath
it??
--
Answer: On me…no, if anything they notice the hearing aid more than the
implant! I think a lot of people think that your implant is probably
ome new technology for listening to music or one of those “blue tooth”
--
omebody asks Jonathan what he’s listening to…because they see the
implant and assume that its like an MP3 player or something. But then
that’s when we tell them what it is and what its for and they think its
--
Well today was the first day I wore my hair up to school since I got
the implant!! I never did, becuase I was too afraid of what people
would say. And plus, I wasn't sure what was going to happen for when my
battery dies...beacuse when it dies, I take the implant off and change
the battery. But if my hair is up...then I was afraid I was going to
--
But yeah...Its a big differnce between the hearing aid and the cochlear
implant!! And my golly...I gotta say, the implant is ALOT nicer looking
than the hearing aid and plus the fact...you can color match!!!!! hehe
Hearing Aid (pic. 1) AB Cochlear Implant (pic. 2)
April 14, 2006
Oh, and I almost forgot....exactly one year ago (last April) I was
dreaming about getting the implant....and look where I am now!! My
Surgery was April 13th and I was turned on May 17th. It has been
--
huh??
Well lets see, alots been going on...but first things first, my implant
is doing great! I can hear everything with it and it sounds normal! And
I absolutly love having the implant...and I gotta say that the main
think that I like about it is the Direct Connect! I love listening to
--
Every now and then I like to experiment with my hearing aid and
Cochlear Implant by listening with my hearing aid only for a few
minutes, then I switch to my cochlear implant for a few minutes and
then I switch to both. And you know sometimes I get the wierdest
results. Sometimes I can hear better with just the implant and
ometimes I can hear better with both. But the hearing aid never win.
Its either both or just the implant.
But anyways, I went to the movies the other day and I was experimenting
--
it really makes a difference. But only someone brave enough would get
one. I don't think I would ever want to get another implant....Don't
get me wrong, because I love my implant but I think I'm too attached to
my hearing aid to let it go. You know? And then you know another great
--
little bit of what the teacher is saying while I'm changing the battery
on my implant. So the hearing aid is like my backup.
And since I'm on this topic.....I have never had someone ask me what
that thing was on my ear! People have always said something about my
hearing aid but not my implant. I thought people would be asking what
that was because its bigger and filled with colors. haha. But that's
--
o'clock, we moved it to the 12 o'clock spot.
So now I've been wearing just my implant as much as I can. Yesterday I
watched a whole movie with just my implant....That may not sound like a
lot but for me it is. And whats shocking is that I actually got
everything they said! But you know, its really weird wearing just an
implant because its like you don't get any sound from the other side.
All the sound comes in my right side, so I keep feeling like I forgot
--
changed the extra magnet to a "half strength" which helps hold my
implant on better. Before I had to hold my magnet on with another
magnet on the outside. Which got really annoying because it magnetized
--
after getting this new magnet, I haven't had a headache and it holds my
implant on ALOT better! So I'm really excited about not having to have
the outside magnet on. YAY!!
--
therapist and my mom was amazed and shocked at how well I was doing
with just the implant. And I was too! I was soo nervous about therapy
that I was actually dreading it. I haven't been going just with my
implant so I wasn't sure how I was going to do. But I actually did
well!
--
time, my mom and I would do a little bit. So I'm really excited about
how things are going with me and the implant. I've been listening to my
music too, so hopefully my goal will be reached before
--
know what the promise is?!?!
Well I promise that I will work with my implant by praticing on
listening to music, and hearing people without my hearing aid. And if
--
I know it may sound weird but I really want to do it, beacuse if I get
really good at listening to music with just my implant, I can use the
"wireless" headphone set for my implant so I'll look like everyone
else. I won't have to deal with those big and bulky headphones. Cool
--
discrimination got worse in 2005, which is when I got my
Advanced Bionics Cochlear Implant. Now I wear the CI on my right
ear and a hearing aid on my left. I'm a student at North Georgia
--
"I enjoy mentoring people who are going through the same situations
that I went through in deciding to get the implant, going through the
urgery, and learning how to hear all over again or even for the first
time. I got my CI at the end of my freshman year in High School so I
can remember what it was like before I got the implant and how my life
has changed ever since.
--
brother Jonathan and my Grandpa Sam, both of whom have the CI as well.
My brother was implanted at age 5 and my grandpa was implanted at age
85."
-Click Picture to learn more!-
With my Cochlear Implant, I can:
"Be a normal teenager/young adult and enjoy my college experience with
Hey everyone! Well things have been going good here. I've been wearing
my hearing aid and my implant and it seems to really help me alot. I've
noticed that I can't function very well with just my hearing aid so I
always have to wear my implant....which is a good thing!! It shows that
the implant really deos help me and I hear better with the implant. Its
been about 4 months since I've had this implant and I am still noticing
more sounds and hearing more. Like yesterday....it was so cool... I was
--
But anyways, I think I did pretty well on hearing everyone. I had to
wear my hearing aid and my implant becuase I don't really know enough
to go completly implant in public. But the only problem I reall had was
in noisy enviroments. But I think that is alwasy going to be harder for
--
ride home I began to realise how thankful I am for the new technology
we have today! Without this implant I wouldn't be able to talk to my
friends, listen to my music - which is by the way EVERYTHING to me,
--
family on the phone. I wouldn't be able to hear anything!!! Now what
kind of life is that?? So for all of you new implant users..... don't
give up! If you do....just think about the life you'll end up with.
--
Burton. And yesterday we were loading the car and cleaning the lake
house. Its like 90 degrees out so my brother told me to take my implant
off because of the sweat. That was annoying because I like to hear
--
from the wind of the boat. So to me it was just easier to use my
hearing aid. Which wasn't very good!!! : ( But I did use the implant
whenever I could. I think it's a "life-saver" to have my brother around
(who is by the way also an Advanced Bionics Implant user) because he
tells me what I can and can't do with my implant. I always forget, like
when we were going to the playground...He reminded me to take it off
--
to work. : )
Reasons why I wanted this Implant
My hearing was borderline on being a candidate for the Advanced Bionic
Cochlear Implant for a long time. But the reasons we were holding back
was becuase of my speech. We didn't know if it would go down or if it
--
already had to go through this with my brother, so she already did all
the resaerch on which implant was the best. So that was one step less
for me. We had already decided that we were going to do the Advanced
Bionics Implant becuase my brother had such a success with it. Other
things that we really liked about the Advanced Bionics Implants were:
the service we get (it was fantastic everytime we needed something or
--
looks "sleeker" and more stylish). So you can tell we are big fans of
the Advanced Bionics Cochlear Implant. But anyways, when thinking about
this, there were a whole list of things I wanted to get out of it, such
--
I want to hear everything possible in this world!! So these are my
goals through this journey of having the Implant. Maybe this will help
you make an easier decision on getting the implant.
July 6, 2005
Getting used to the Cochlear Implant
Hey! Well today I'm sitting around the house, nasty weather huh? But
--
But oh well. I've also relized that I keep forgeting that I only have
my implant on! Thats GREAT huh?? Right now my hearing aid is in the
dry-box just collecting dust. haha. I've been leaving it there and
--
June 30, 2005
Interesting Point about dealing with the Cochlear Implant
I was talking to this lady about my Cochlear Implant and she made an
interesting point and I thought I'd share with you. She said that the
proccess of learning to hear with the implant is like getting glasses.
When you don't have your glasses on everything is fussy and when you
have them on, you have to learn what the fuzzy thing really was. So
with the implant...you may not hear any noise when doing the dishes but
when you get the implant you'll hear noises and you have to get used to
the fact that the sound is from the water.
And I think that is so true becuase when you get the implant, so don't
all the sudden know what each sound is and where it is coming from. It
takes time to "train" your brain what all the noises are coming from.
So for the new implant users, don't get discouraged, becuase afterall
in the the long run we will be able to hear a lot! Hey, maybe even more
--
was really the first thing I noticed to be different from my cochlear
Implant and my hearing aid. Another thing that I noticed to be louder
is a light switch. lol. When I turn on a light switch I hear it. I've
--
Oh and here is a picture of me and my brother. We both have the
Advanced Bionocs Cochlear Implant. He has the BTE and I have the new
Auria. (up above) We both love it!
--
would get so annoying and loud that I couldn't hear or talk to people
very well. I couldn't even hear the t.v with just my implant. And
before this noise came I would turn off my hearing aid because I could
--
OH MY GOSH!!! GUESS WHAT I'M DOING RIGHT NOW.....LISTENING TO MUSIC!
Yep I am listening to music with my implant!!! YAY!!!! I'm so excited.
I put my headphones on to listen to music while I blog and I could
--
with my mom and I was leaning against the car and I looked over the
other way (the side with my implant) and all the sudden my implant goes
flying off and attaches itself to the car!!! Oh my gosh!! I couldn't
--
things happen but I never thought it would actually happen to me. Can
you believe it?? So new implant users - BEWARE! THE IMPLANT IS A MAGNET
SO IT WILL ATTACHE ITSELF TO METAL!!! lol.
--
My First Day into the New World
On May the 17th I went to get my Cochlear Implant turned on. I was so
excited, sad, nervous, and everything you could possibly imagine. But
most of all I was happy and very excited. But I will tell you this - if
you are getting the implant PLEASE remember this.... Your parents WILL
cry and get very emotional. I know this because my mom is a very strong
--
for the record, be aware that your parents, or your husband or wife
will get very emotional from getting the news of having the implant to
getting turned on.
--
and ask questions, look around, etc. But the first thing we did was
that we got my implant out - most people would probably have to sit
there and put it together - but you know me...I just had to put it
--
that "normal" people hear, I was excited!! I just couldn't wait to get
turned on. So we got the implant out and hooked it to the computer with
this long cord. Then we did some tests to set the volumes right and see
--
exausted but I could do it. It just takes time to get back on your feet
again. So that was the first week of having my Implant.
Newer Posts Home
--
discrimination got worse in 2005, which is when I got my
Advanced Bionics Cochlear Implant. Now I wear the CI on my right
ear and a hearing aid on my left. I'm a student at North Georgia
--
"I enjoy mentoring people who are going through the same situations
that I went through in deciding to get the implant, going through the
urgery, and learning how to hear all over again or even for the first
time. I got my CI at the end of my freshman year in High School so I
can remember what it was like before I got the implant and how my life
has changed ever since.
--
brother Jonathan and my Grandpa Sam, both of whom have the CI as well.
My brother was implanted at age 5 and my grandpa was implanted at age
85."
-Click Picture to learn more!-
With my Cochlear Implant, I can:
"Be a normal teenager/young adult and enjoy my college experience with
child » cochlear implants Category Feed My trifecta child WordPress.com

--
Comments
Archive for the ‘cochlear implants’ Category
Keeping us busy
Posted in A mother's love is unending, additional concerns, Adhd,
Advocate, autism, cochlear implants, deaf autism, Deaf related, jaded
thoughts, Letting it out - Venting Session, Mom related rants,
--
Music therapy
Posted in Adhd, Adult related, Advocate, autism, cochlear implants,
Deaf related, Loving Life, Mom related rants, music therapy,
--
awareness of things around him.  Thus hearing world for a deaf child
with cochlear implants can be very sensorily (is this even a word??)
overwhelming that every single sound cannot possibly be filtered  no
--
overcome.
Cochlear implant problems
Posted in additional concerns, Adhd, Advocate, autism, cochlear
implant, cochlear implants, Deaf related, parenthood, sensory, special
Needs parenting, tagged a road less traveled, adhd, advocate,
Audiology, Autism, biomedical technology, cochlear, cochlear implant
problems, cochlear implants, deaf, deaf autism, Deafness, hardware
issues, hearing loss, high functioning autism, lucasjc15, mapping,
--
volume or pain from physical issues or internal device. Then both
implants shutting off unexpectedly. Swapping two coils  and having none
to spare.  All of which are completely out of warranty.  So imagine the
--
there is an issue we may have to,  in the last and worst case
cenario,  deplant and reimplant.  I felt myself well up with all the
ame emotions P re surgery, 5+ years ago and I had to compose myself
--
not be stressed with what can trigger him from the outside.  I’d even
opt to give him a sensory break from implants if it helped calm
himself.  I wish I can just take away his anxiety or stress. After
--
Berkeley biomedical technology ca catch up CEID center for early
intervention on deafness CI cochlear cochlear implant cochlear
implant problems cochlear implants Conversations with LJ deaf deaf
and hard of hearing deaf autism deaf culture deaf journey Deafness
pread.  In early July, we had to take Madison to the ER with a 105
fever.  Yes, this is a high fever, but children with cochlear implants
are more susceptible to getting meningitis.  When speaking with the
--
The school has never had a child with a hearing loss or cochlear
implants.  The staff at CHC will be giving a brief presentation on
hearing loss in the classroom prior to school starting.  We feel the
--
It really is truly amazing how much progress she has made.  Madison had
an appointment on Friday at NYU Cochlear Implant Center with her
audiologist, Alison and speech therapist, Rosemarie.  Madison was going
--
peech (which is the target range for someone with a cochlear
implant).  We were told that her expressive language exceeds that of
other 20 month children, born with typical-hearing.  It was gratifying
--
January 25, 2012.  An important date in our lives.  It has been one
year.  One year since Dr. Roland performed bilateral cochlear implant
urgery on our 7 month old daughter.  I’d be lying if I told you I knew
--
to their hearing peers with things like “hearing aids” and “cochlear
implants”.
I have learned more this past year than I have in the 30 years of my
--
thing for our daughter would be the possibility for her to receive
cochlear implants.
Brian and I created this blog to allow our family and friends to embark
--
Olive's Ears / Les Oreilles d'Olive
Olive’s Second Implant Surgery Day April 19, 2012 / Deuxieme
Operation d’Olive le 19 Avril 2012 - On April 19, Olive received
her 2nd Cochlear implant. We arrived at the hospital bright and
early at 6:15am and checked in. Olive’s procedure was schedul...
Feed The Account of Our Arrows » Cochlear Implant Category Feed The
Account of Our Arrows WordPress.com
--
Living life intentionally despite the loosely controlled chaos
Category Archives: Cochlear Implant
Aug1
--
Wyatt very often, but they have a blast with him when they do!While we
were in Opp EK got to use her new Aquabag from Cochlear.  Her implant
tayed on so well and she LOVED hearing while she swam.  So thankful
--
best friend’s weddings, and we move MONDAY!!!  So excited!
Filed under Birthday Parties, Celebrating, Cochlear Implant, Day to
Day, Family, Opp, Road Trips | 2 Comments
--
mild to moderate hearing loss on that side.  EK also has fluid, but if
we put tubes in, it could get the internal part of the implant wet…so
we’re hoping that clears up on its own.  After their appt. we ate lunch
--
chipmunk with a dress who sings “All the Single Ladies.”
Filed under Birthday Parties, CCPS, Celebrating, Cochlear Implant, Day
to Day, Hearing, Kids |
--
7th (yikes!) birthday to post about.
Filed under Caden, CCPS, Celebrating, Cochlear Implant, Crafts, Day to
Day, Ella Kate, Friends, PreSchool |
--
A couple weeks ago we went to The McWane Center to celebrate Dr.
Woolley’s 300 implant recipients.  He’s done many more than 300
implants since most of the kids he implants now are bilateral.  EK
wouldn’t look at the camera for our pic with Dr. Woolley…probably
because the room we were in was LOUD and full of people.  We are so
thankful for the gift of cochlear implants and are forever grateful for
them and Dr. Woolley.  The McWane Center is such a neat place, but I
--
thoughtfulness, and crazy. :)
Filed under Caden, CCPS, Celebrating, Cochlear Implant, Day to Day,
Ella Kate, Family, John Luke, PreSchool, Surgery |
--
meet my expectations. :)
Filed under Caden, CCPS, Cochlear Implant, Day to Day, Ella Kate, Fun
with the Neighbors, John Luke, Therapy |
--
pool because it was just too hard.  It was too hard to protect her
implants from the water.  It was too hard to keep them dry.  If we
took her implants off it was too hard to keep up with her because
SHE COULDN’T HEAR A THING.  So, this my friends will be phenomenal.
--
well.  I love time with our little family.  They make me smile. :)
Filed under Cochlear Implant, Day to Day, Family, Hearing, Kids,
Soccer, Therapy and tagged , , , , |
--
picked Caden up early from school for fun.
Filed under Cochlear Implant, Day to Day, Ella Kate, Kids, PreSchool,
Therapy |
--
Compare the 2 audiograms. You can see how well she hears with her
implants on. It is very exciting to see how she hears almost everything
on the audiogram. She may or may not hear the birds chirping or the
--
That brings me to 2 Sundays ago…I’ll add more in a little bit…
Filed under Birthday Parties, Celebrating, Church, Cochlear Implant,
Day to Day, Family, Hearing, Kids, Opp, Road Trips, Therapy |
--
back up that had been drying. Phew, it worked. Sigh. Of. Relief. Come
to find out…I got our audiologist to look at the implant cochlear sent
us that wasn’t working properly and…it had NO MAPS IN IT! Cochlear sent
us an empty CI. All of our implants are working properly at the moment
and the empty implant has been mapped. It sure is nerve racking
ometimes when we depend on an electronic device for our child’s
hearing, but I’m oh so thankful for them!!
Filed under Cochlear Implant, Disney, Ella Kate |
Apr12
Did we find the implant? No. No we did not. Sad story. It was not for
lack of trying. I went back up there about 9am. We used the under water
--
I’m sad we’re cashing in the one replacement less than 6 months after
he got her implant, but I’m thankful we have that option. This
afternoon we headed over to our insurance agents office and got a
--
purchase some other insurance through Cochlear which would allow us to
lose one implant per year. I feel so much better about it all now.
I am so thankful to the good ole boys who helped us yesterday and
--
they did for us. They spent 7 hours of their day searching through the
lake for our babies implant. I got to hang out with some motorcycle
riding, overall and camo wearing, tobacco dipping, unemployed Southern
guys. It was quite an enlightening week. While they did not find the
implant, it was certainly not because they didn’t give it their all.
So, there you have it…we didn’t find it, but it’s not a huge deal. We
--
the replacement. Hopefully that will come within the next week.
Filed under Cochlear Implant, Day to Day, Ella Kate |
Post navigation
celebrate Sophie's hearing birthday! It's been three years since her
implants were activated and she first heard the amazing sounds of the
world. She has achieved so much in just a few years and I can only
--
one day soon she will ask me about David's ears and wonder if he will
also be getting implants. These questions are easy to answer now
because she is only three, but I know they will become harder in the
--
traight-forward facts about hearing loss and the potential causes,
ummarized the cochlear implant process and timeline, and told me about
their intensive oral program. At one point, I remember her
--
education, interpreters, and limitations. I had already researched a
bit about cochlear implants, but I was still naive and ignorant to what
a diagnosis of profound hearing loss meant for Sophie.
--
[DSC02713.JPG]
Circus fun! The fireman clown wears implants, too!
[DSC02735.JPG]
--
non-syndromic and is caused by a mutation in the Connexin gene. Sophia
received bilateral cochlear implants in December 2010 at 8 months of
age and was activated one month later. The purpose of this blog is to
tage, Ava is learning how to identify the various parts of her
cochlear implant and indicate when her cochlear implant and FM system
are not giving a clear signal.  Self-advocacy is a very important skill
--
better, she is reading well above grade level.  I find that many of our
CI kiddoes who were identified early and implanted at a young age, do
extremely well in reading.  This gives them a great foundation to carry
--
would love to share.
TRAVELLING WITH COCHLEAR IMPLANTS
My husband and I travelled with Lauren and Ava to Mexico last month.
--
to work one on one with the TOD.  One of the projects they will work on
is introducing her cochlear implants to her classmates.  Cochlear
Corporation apparently has colouring books that we can order which Ava
can give to her class while she is doing her presentation.
There are a couple exciting products for cochlear implants that I am
dying to share:
--
my hands on ANYTHING I could find out about deafness and cochlear
implants for Ava, who had just been diagnosed as profoundly deaf, I
came across this amazing blog "Cochlearimplantonline.com".  The creator
of that blog, is Rachel Chaikof.  Rachel is a young woman who is deaf
and has bilateral cochlear implants.  She was implanted at the age of 3
in 1989 and was one of the first children to be implanted in the U.S.
Rachel is a success story.  She excelled in school, mastered the french
--
place where one can learn all he or she needs to know about  hearing
loss and cochlear implants.  For your tireless efforts to spread
awareness about hearing loss.  And especially for taking the time to
--
ystem, weekly intervention with her d/hh itinerant teacher, in-service
for the staff on cochlear implants,  her classroom will have the
appropriate modifications made to reduce background noise such as hush
--
ensorineural hearing loss in September, 2008. She received
imultaneous bilateral cochlear implants when she was 9 months old on
March 31, 2009. Today she is 6 years old and is on par with her hearing
--
hearing
Cochlear Implant Accessories
Ava's Spoken Words and Approximations
Posts on 'Life is Bliss - Lily's Cochlear Implant Journey' (RSS 1.0)
Posts on 'Life is Bliss - Lily's Cochlear Implant Journey' (RSS 2.0)
Home

Life is Bliss - Lily's Cochlear Implant Journey
About
Speaking Gigs
Cochlear Implant journey. Contact us for more information.
Search
--
Audiology)
Jace Wolfe: Programming Cochlear Implants (Core Clincal Concepts in
and Talking, Birth to Six
--
Feedjit Live Blog Stats
Cochlear Implants
January 10, 2016
--
peech-to-text captioning device.
American Cochlear Implant Alliance - View materials from their plenary
and special sessions at their recent conference.
--
out her Advanced Bionics Harmony BTEs and wear them at home. We
received the Harmonies when Lily was first implanted, but have never
activated them, because Lily has always prefered the Body Worns and
--
Love that her hopes and dreams include inventing a static proof
cochlear implant and to become a cochlear implant designer.   Hopefully
Advanced Bionics will have a job for her in 20 or so years.
--
On the last day, one of the Moms of the other students came over to me
and said I see Lily has Cochlear Implants.  Instantly I wondered what
her connection with the "hearing" world was.   She pulled her hair back
and said, "I have one too.  I was implanted after college and have had
it about 15 years."  While I was amazed, Lily thought it was only
--
It's been a huge week.  After two years of requests, Lily and the other
kids with cochlear implants at her school, can now go down one metal
lide without fear of damaging their electronic hearing equipment from
--
of herself acting out both roles.
Next year we hope to complete a cochlear implant or acoustics study,
but this year we didn't find the right approach for a first grader.
--
Interesting study from Ear and Hearing of Spoken Language Outcomes in
children with unilateral versus bilateral cochlear implants.
Children with bilateral CIs achieved significantly better vocabulary
--
related to parenting, child characteristics, and family background.
When Lily was implanted six years ago, the big debate was one or two
implants.  Our sense was that she had two ears, so she should have two
implants right away.  There was very little research about the benefits
of two implants at the time. Many families were debating about "saving
one ear for future technology."  I don't hear that phrase today.  Two
implants seem like a standard practice.
Lily's Mom at 11:27 PM | Permalink | Comments (0)
--
February 10, 2014
Early Cochlear Implant Switch-On
Interesting research summary on the Safety and Functional Results of
Early Cochlear Implant Switch-On in Children.   That means instead of
waiting for four weeks before they switched the implant on, they only
waited for one week.   Even five years ago, Lily's implant center only
waited 10 days.
"This is the first study investigating the safety and the effects of an
early cochlear implant switch-on in children. Results show that such a
procedure is well tolerated by pediatric subjects and free from
--
Lily's Mom at 06:50 AM | Permalink | Comments (0)
/1h3BrO1&text=Early Cochlear Implant Switch-On &count=horizontal
February 09, 2014
Cochlear Implant with no external hardware
Fascinating article on the future of cochlear implants.
Researchers have developed a new, low-power signal-processing chip,
which sits in the middle ear, that could lead to a cochlear implant
with no external hardware. The implant would be wirelessly recharged
and would run for about eight hours on each charge.
Lily's Mom at 08:24 PM | Permalink | Comments (0)
/M3s3fe&text=Cochlear Implant with no external
hardware&count=horizontal
--
Cecilia - A little girl who changed our lives
The night before Lily's implantation we watched a marketing video from
Advanced Bionics about a little girl named Cecilia who received a
cochlear implant around the age of two.   She was independent,
confident, talking, seemed really smart and had great parents.  We
--
January 16, 2014
Gene therapy to improve cochlear implants?
Facinating article on new research that has investigated the
--
/1dUGt7Z&text=Gene therapy to improve cochlear
implants?&count=horizontal
January 14, 2014
Family uses media effectively to gain cochlear implant coverage
Great story of a family overcoming an insurance denial by Conventry for
Cochlear Implant coverage.  He even received Advanced Bionics.
http://news.yahoo.com/video/life-changing-ear-operation-helps-230943724
--
Lily's Mom at 06:29 AM | Permalink | Comments (0)
/1iNi6hf&text=Family uses media effectively to gain cochlear implant
coverage&count=horizontal
--
Love the innovation of the family who created CIWear, an active wear
hirt with pockets for cochlear implants and other electronic devices.
Where to put the Neptune processors is a challenge that adults and
--
December 22, 2013
Therapy via IPads for children with cochlear implants
Great story on using IPads for teletherapy in a program called
BabyTalk.  For newly implanted children under three, this program helps
babies in Northern California learn how to listen and speak.  It's a
--
/19kk20n&text=Therapy via IPads for children with cochlear
implants&count=horizontal
December 20, 2013
--
New study out of Penn State showing long-term positive outcomes of
cochlear implantation.
The research shows that on average, children improve in oral
communication skills and have better peer relationships years after
implantation, rather than immediately after. Even implant recipients
who performed poorly several years after the procedure continue to
--
in their early development to build healthy levels of self-esteem and
confidence. The degree to which implanted children are accepted by
mainstream schools – whether they are understood by their teachers and
--
Study: Hearing preservation
Interesting study on Hearing preservation for Cochlear Implant
outcomes.
--
and HEARing Cooperative Research Centre (CRC) better understand how the
human brain processes information from a cochlear implant.
For the first time, scientists can use a well-established brain imaging
technique called MEG, or magnetoencephalography, to measure brain
function in recipients of cochlear implants, including young children.
The new device overcomes the electromagnetic restrictions of cochlear
implants, enabling researchers to gain valuable insight into this
established and effective solution for people with hearing loss.
--
September 12, 2013
Cochlear Implant history and pioneers
The 2013 Lasker~DeBakey Clinical Medical Research Award honors three
cientists who developed the modern cochlear implant, a device that
restores hearing to individuals with profound deafness. Through their
--
medical intervention.
Check out their incredible video interview of cochlear implant pioneers
Graeme M. Clark, Ingeborg Hochmair and Blake S. Wilson and an extensive
description of the history of the development of the cochlear implant.
It's hard to believe the FDA only gave its inaugural approval to a
multichannel cochlear implant in 1985 for treating adults who could
hear before they went deaf.
Lily's Mom at 06:04 AM | Permalink | Comments (0)
/1e5w0vb&text=Cochlear Implant history and pioneers&count=horizontal
September 11, 2013
Class presentation on cochlear implants and other fun stuff
Lily and I have now given two presentations on hearing and cochlear
implants at her school.  The first was a presentation to her own
class.  We started by asking if there was anything different about
--
her class about sound, asked if we could come talk about Cochlear
Implants and hearing.  Her class had read a small piece about cochlear
implants in their textbook and they were very interested in the
ubject.
--
compassionate bunch.   Their questions ranged from how does a CI work
to what happens if someone can't pay for an implant.
We tried to inspire the students to become scientists, engineers or
--
Lily's Mom at 06:43 AM | Permalink | Comments (0)
/17pKjWf&text=Class presentation on cochlear implants and other fun
tuff&count=horizontal
--
With Naída CI, AB brings performance and wireless connectivity and now
cochlear implant recipients have access to the combined technologies of
AB & Phonak.
--
CI Toolkit for parents and teachers
Recently I received The Cochlear Implant School Toolkit which was
funded by a Small Business Innovation Research Grant from the National
--
create peer acceptance and to smooth the integration of children
with cochlear implants into mainstream classrooms
teachers, and children
examples for teaching a student with a cochlear implant, tips for
creating an inclusive classroom, suggestions for classroom
--
been through the mainstreaming process with a child with a cochlear
implant.
All of the pieces are well done and an impressive advisory panel guided
--
The research-based teacher's toolkit should be standard reading for
each teacher that has a child with a cochlear implant.  The guide has
been espeically useful for Lily's school.  Lily's teacher is very
--
The company that developed this toolkit is also working on The Cochlear
Implant University which will support high school and college students
with cochlear implants and their parents as the student transitions to
higher education.
The toolkit is a must read for all famlies and teachers who work with
kids with Cochlear Implants.
Lily's Mom at 10:10 PM | Permalink | Comments (0)
--
August 01, 2013
Cochlear Implant Balance Research Study
We've participated in various cochlear implant research studies over
the past five years because we feel it's important to give back and
--
Last week, Lily was in a balance study at Boystown that was trying to
determine if there was a connection between cochlear implantation and
balance issues.  The researchers asked Lily to walk, hop, stand on a
--
Lily's Mom at 06:09 AM | Permalink | Comments (1)
/1edjTrA&text=Cochlear Implant Balance Research Study&count=horizontal
Next »
be deaf, possibly be inspired to pick up a few sign language books or
next time you see a child with hearing aids or Cochlear Implants you
will know what it took for that child to get where he/she is today.
--
2:30pm First Audiologist Apt with Sara
3:30pm Meeting Dr. Murray, Implant Surgeon
Jan 29th, Oakland - Sedated CT Scan
--
As parents we struggled with moving her from the DHH program, after
all she's deaf. Her friends there either have cochlear implants or
hearing aids so Brinley wouldn't be so different. It's safe. She
--
[brin.jpg]
http://www.modbee.com/2012/08/17/2334514/an-ear-for-musicimplants-allow
.html
--
wim cap that is stretchy enough to pull over Brin's head and cochlear
implants! Worked like a charm. Just had to share this.
[photo.PNG]
don’t know how she does it, but she’s an incredible Mom.
We are at point where we are wondering about a 2nd implant. There seems
to be a lot of opinions out there, but very little hard evidence for
children. So we will go ahead and ask all of you. Is there anyone out
there that has received, or had a child receive a bi-lateral implant?
Would you recommend it? What differences have you seen? Please let us
--
Meet Cal's Voice...
Cal loves his implant and loves his new voice. Every time his implant
goes on it is like flipping on a voice switch - quiet Cal goes to noisy
--
the past two weeks, Cal has just been getting acquainted with his
implant. Yesterday we went in again and they activated more electrodes
and turned it up a level. Today at breakfast Londyn started talking to
--
elf about 7 hours after the surgery. There were three other 1 year old
babies that got implants that day, so Cal had a lot of fun playing with
his new friends! Our little man is such a trooper, and we are so very
--
forms
and waiting, our insurance finally approved Cal’s cochlear implant.
That means that this Friday is a go! The long wait is over, Cal will be
implanted by the end of the week.
Excitement
--
I have learned in the past 8-½ months is astounding. As a parent you
read books, you learn audiology results, you pour over cochlear implant
tudies, you take ASL classes, you meet weekly with PIP, you immerse
--
The date is set, the okay has been given…we are officially a go. Cal is
cheduled for his cochlear implant surgery on Sept. 4, 2009. So now
that the date is set and most things have been squared away I’m
Cochlear Kids
country kids with cochlear implants
Pages
Showing posts with label cochlear implants. Show all posts
Monday, October 12, 2015
--
first born. Brooklyn has been hearing for almost that long as well, but
Gage was three and a half years old when his first cochlear implant was
turned on. Here's how funny all that noise can be!
--
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: cochlear implants, correcting speech, deafness, Goldenhar
Syndrome, HEAR Center, hearing loss, Surgery
--
[2014-11-29_06-32-52_147.jpg]
Labels: cochlear implants, deafness, hearing loss, no implants Brook
Saturday, July 18, 2015
--
has string work to do)
Labels: ADHD, cochlear implants, deafness, Goldenhar Syndrome, hearing
loss, parenting, random stories
--
four). After the boy finishes growing at around age 20, he can decide
if he wants an adult (more permanent) bridge or dental implants.
I know it sounds like a lot, and we haven't even been back to see the
--
heavy metal already!
Labels: braces, cochlear implants, Goldenhar Syndrome, music,
orthodontist
--
as mom but they both learned something from their impromptu stop.
Labels: advocacy, cochlear implants, deafness, Goldenhar Syndrome,
hearing loss
--
guitar well, much less play one, I would have said NO.
Labels: cochlear implants, Goldenhar Syndrome, music, random stories,
religion
--
tanding in front of judges presenting a project about her cochlear
implants. She and her friend/partner decided to do a project about B's
ears and how technology helps her hear and the impact it makes at
--
2 comments
Labels: cochlear implants, contest, hearing loss, presentations, School
tories
--
again in January and see if new paperwork will get it passed through
because he not only needs braces, he needs dental implants and possibly
jaw surgery as well. I used to think that was so far in his future but
--
believe how Blessed we truly are!
Labels: ADHD, cochlear implants, deafness, genetics, Goldenhar
Syndrome, hearing loss, music, orthodontist, School stories
--
[1405383329747.jpg]
Labels: cochlear implants, music, random stories, School stories
Saturday, July 12, 2014
--
1 comments
Labels: audiology, AVT/speech, cochlear implants, deafness, FM systems,
HEAR Center, hearing loss, MAPping, School stories, upgrade
--
3 comments
Labels: cochlear implants, deafness, Goldenhar Syndrome, hearing loss,
music, parenting, religion, speech reading
--
I am so proud for her and proud of her. She was asked to speak to a
first grade class about her implants since their reading story was
about a deaf child. The teacher has a deaf nephew and has taught my
children in the past so she was quite familiar with the cochlear
implants. Brooklyn was happy to show off her ears yesterday to the
crowd of six/seven year olds.
--
[plugged+device.jpg]
Labels: bilateral, cochlear implants, hearing loss, IEPs, music, School
tories, upgrade
--
be in 5th!! How did this happen?
Labels: cochlear implants, deafness, hearing loss, IEPs, School stories
Wednesday, March 12, 2014
--
My ten year old child, Brooklyn Blakely, is seeking approval for
replacement processors for her cochlear implants. I understand that
your work load holds tremendous weight and we are trying to express
--
[edited+light.jpg]
Labels: cochlear implants, no implants Brook, random stories, School
Monday, February 17, 2014
--
Thank you all. B is smitten!
Labels: bilateral, cochlear implants, HEAR Center, MAPping, parenting,
upgrade
--
nervous, and trying to be patient.
Labels: advocacy, cochlear implants, upgrade
Monday, January 27, 2014
--
[N6+chart.jpg]
Labels: cochlear implants, upgrade
Wednesday, January 15, 2014
--
We are now prepping in high gear for Brook's upgrade to the N6 Cochlear
implant processors. I suppose being out of the loop, not reading blogs
like I used to, not reading the group messages, etc. I am just now
--
[chart+N6+upgrade.jpg]
Labels: bilateral, Charity, cochlear implants, upgrade
Friday, December 27, 2013
--
enjoys it just as much. She always remembers him.
Labels: cochlear implants, deafness, Goldenhar Syndrome, parenting,
Surgery
--
from all over the world came in small groups where I gave my "speech"
on cochlear implants, Goldenhar Syndrome, skin tags, scars, dermoids of
the eye, etc etc etc...
--
She is on her last few spare parts right now! Until next time....
Labels: advocacy, bilateral, cochlear implants, deafness, genetics,
Goldenhar Syndrome, hearing loss, parenting, presentations,
listen with your heart. speak with love.
Our Family's Cochlear Implant Journey
Saturday, June 15, 2013
--
on. He was a baby with hearing aids and then a toddler with a Cochlear
Implant. Strangers would stare. Sometimes sweet old ladies at the
grocery store would pat my shoulder and tell me how sweet he was and
--
Kindergarten in a school where he is the ONLY kiddo out of over 500
that has Cochlear Implants.
I spent this year at our mainstream school excitedly explaining to
parents, teachers, administrators, and coaches "Yes, he's deaf BUT...."
My bilateral Cochlear Implant boy is able to do things academically and
ocially that every other 6.5 year old boy can. He became a class
--
really working hard on rehabilitating his year old left Cochlear
Implant. Teaching a deaf kid (even one like Christian) to read and tell
the difference between a /th/ sound and /f/ sound is a challenge and
--
And then there is our life as a family impacted by hearing loss. 5
years ago today Christian received his first Cochlear Implant. Over the
past 5 years, we've had months that have flown by with progress and
--
It's not the end of the road for us though. Weekly therapy appointments
for his newly implanted ear, constant monitoring of his mainstream
classroom experience still dominate our family life. But it's gotten
--
is reading at the expected 1st Grade level.
This is my little boy, who happens to have bilateral cochlear implants,
who is in a class with 22 other kids in a TYPICAL public school
--
with hearing loss in his grade and the only child with Cochlear
Implants in a school with close to 500 kids.
This is my little boy, who also was in school since he was 18 months
--
"me" in that picture was still innocent. Hearing loss, deafness, IEPs,
urgeries, Cochlear Implants, private schools, speech perception
testing and inclusion meant nothing to me. That "me" in the picture had
--
over our head. I found out we were pregnant with her on the day of
Christian's first Cochlear Implant activation. He was just under 16
months old, and we were in the thick of it. I was constantly
--
Learning to Listen
Just after Christian's first Cochlear Implant activation (almost 5
years ago...wow....) my life was consumed by teaching him to "LEARN TO
--
As he grew, it just clicked. Honestly, at almost 5 years post his first
activation and one year after his second implant the days of me
teaching him a sound and what the meaning was are almost gone. And then
--
(6), and Liliana Grace (4) Christian was born Deaf, and was
implanted with his Cochlear Implant at 14 months of age and his
econd at 5 years old. Lily is hearing, and is a handful but a
listen with your heart. speak with love.
Our Family's Cochlear Implant Journey
Tuesday, October 30, 2012
--
Christian and Dr. V got straight to work on Wednesday for his mapping
appointment. We concentrated solely on his newly implanted ear .
Christian patiently did all of the testing and waiting as each
--
5 1/2 years into this and I am still amazed.
Watching the programming process of my kid's Cochlear Implants
literally takes my breath away each time. If you haven't been through
--
this past Spring when we decided to go bilateral and get his other ear
implanted. All along the way, Christian took each step in great
wonder. He embraced the moment, challenged his little body and big
--
He grew into an articulate, confident, sweet, silly, loving and
incredibly smart little guy who just happens to use Cochlear Implants
to listen and speak. I've said it before, and I will say it again, and
--
(6), and Liliana Grace (4) Christian was born Deaf, and was
implanted with his Cochlear Implant at 14 months of age and his
econd at 5 years old. Lily is hearing, and is a handful but a
listen with your heart. speak with love.
Our Family's Cochlear Implant Journey
Thursday, August 16, 2012
--
version of the prep sheet)
-Continue auditory rehabilitation on newly implanted ear with our
fantastic private SLP through the fall.
--
uggestions that will help us succeed together from day one. Please
keep in mind that cochlear implants (CIs) do not “fix” hearing, like
glasses fix poor vision.  Christian’s cochlear implants help enhance
his hearing, but additional assistance is still needed. We’ve listed
--
Technology Tips
Ø  Christian’s Cochlear Implants help him hear much better, but he
doesn’t always understand what he hears especially if the room is noisy
or if people talk too fast and on top of each other.
Ø  We are happy to talk with you about Christian’s Cochlear Implants.
We will feel better knowing that you understand how his hearing
--
Ø  Christian has a remote control that he uses to change the settings
of his Cochlear Implants. Please allow him to keep this remote in his
backpack and to be able to readily access it during times of
--
front. I have more of the "first-time in a school that he's the only
with Cochlear Implants and these teachers have no formal training when
it comes to educating my kid" kinda jitters. I thought I was ok, and
--
bit of in-servicing. We've really been pushing Christian's newly
implanted ear with MANY hours of rehab both with his SLP from The River
School and with a county SLP. He's made absolutely astounding progress,
--
The years went on and we both learned. Christian grew from a newly
implanted toddler to a sweet and chatty 2 year old who was already
urpassing his hearing peers in expressive language. I became a little
--
inevitable time that we would leave the school. I started having dreams
of his Cochlear Implant failing during his oral dissertation defense in
college. The dream when it happend on his wedding day still sticks with
--
tood by our side. As fast as it happened, it was a long time coming
and we were ready for it. Rehabilitating the newly implanted ear along
with prepping to transition to Kindergarten in our public school became
--
center around that school and so many steps of our family journey with
Cochlear Implants have started there. It's bittersweet to leave a place
that not only did my son grow-up in, but I did as well. It's easy to
--
and supported in ways that most families never get a chance to
experience, let alone families with kids with Cochlear Implants.
Don't get me wrong, I've been counting down the days until our summer
--
ANYTHING with NO limitations. They made my life as a Mom to a kid with
Cochlear Implants just a little bit easier and little bit LESS
tressful by being THE BEST OF THE BEST.
--
boy will be the only kid in a school of hundreds of typical kids with
Cochlear Implants. I'm worried he's going to be alone. I'm worried that
for the first time he may just feel different. Pile that on top of all
--
-Christian was qualified for ESY (Extended School Year) due to his
recent implantation and activation, so we will receive 1x weekly
ervices (this is in addition to the private therapy we will continue
--
CAN do the things we say he can do. Today I will change perceptions of
Cochlear Implant children.  Today, I'm strong. Today, I'm confident.
Today, I'm going to do my best to give my little boy (who is SO ready
--
(6), and Liliana Grace (4) Christian was born Deaf, and was
implanted with his Cochlear Implant at 14 months of age and his
econd at 5 years old. Lily is hearing, and is a handful but a
listen with your heart. speak with love.
Our Family's Cochlear Implant Journey
Friday, June 1, 2012
--
"worries" aren't really an issue here in our house. I'm just freaking
out about sending this school their VERY FIRST Cochlear Implant kid.
Oh, and the really loud classrooms. I'm nervous about that.
--
nickname is Sharker". So thankful to have such a great team at THE BEST
implant center!
[DSC_0593.jpg]
--
those viral YouTube videos that show the miracle of the Cochlear
Implant. It wasn't one of those activations that bring tears to your
eyes or demonstrate what we know is truly the magic of this amazing
--
work this way. Right now, his brain is working hard trying to interpret
the sounds coming out of the implant. Right now, he can't understand
our voices, music or environmental sounds.  Right now, he's in a really
difficult spot.  I am so incredibly thankful that we go to the best
implant center in the nation. I am beyond thankful that Christian is a
part of one of our country's best oral-deaf education schools. We just
--
Could this week be any more HUGE for Christian?
1st Cochlear Implant activation is tomorrow at Hopkins, Kindergarten
Orientation on Thursday and Board Breaking on Friday night (followed by
--
[recovery3.jpg]
Christian checking out his new implant!
[recovery5.jpg]
--
I wrote a letter 4 years ago to Christian  the night before we took him
to Hopkins for his first Cochlear Implant.  Tomorrow morning we're
going bilateral. Tomorrow morning life is going to change.
--
me?"  Anything that we can do to make your tricky life a bit easier, we
are going to do it.  Getting your other implanted right now made sense
for you, for our family and for the world you live in.
--
(6), and Liliana Grace (4) Christian was born Deaf, and was
implanted with his Cochlear Implant at 14 months of age and his
econd at 5 years old. Lily is hearing, and is a handful but a
listen with your heart. speak with love.
Our Family's Cochlear Implant Journey
Saturday, April 14, 2012
--
By the Numbers.
34-Days until Christian's 2nd Cochlear Implant Surgery.
10.5-Lily's new shoe size. My hopes of her fitting into a perfect
--
We took one more step closer to the next chapter in our CI Journey
today with a quick phone call from our implant center with our 3
activation dates. Activation will happen about 4 weeks after the
--
up to and learn from. I love knowing that there's nothing holding
back.  That's the miracle of the Cochlear Implant.
at 3/14/2012 1 comment: Links to this post
--
So here I am going with the flow. We've decided to give Christian
another Cochlear Implant. Going bilateral is a big change for him. It's
a big change of our family. We're excited, nervous, and anxious. We're
--
would be putting a heavy splash of Bailey's in my coffee.
So, we're exploring implanting Christian's left ear. We've been
watching that ear carefully, and while his audiogram has only changed a
--
(6), and Liliana Grace (4) Christian was born Deaf, and was
implanted with his Cochlear Implant at 14 months of age and his
econd at 5 years old. Lily is hearing, and is a handful but a
hearing loss, and the journey of getting and utilizing cochlear
implants. Both have congenital deafness due to the Connexin 26 gene
mutation.
--
evaluation soon after her diagnosis of profound deafness for Taylor in
2009, and the cochlear implant surgery only 10 days later, followed by
weekly therapy visits for two years.  Then to our Lauren's birth and
--
weekly class that Hearts for Hearing sponsored.  Dr. Jace Wolfe, a
brilliant audiologist and researcher, has done our cochlear implant
mapping for years now; my girls think he is just a regular goofy dad
--
Posted by Melinda Morgan at 10/01/2015 No comments:
Labels: cochlear implants, connexin26, Heartsforhearing
Monday, May 20, 2013
--
Posted by Melinda Morgan at 5/10/2013 1 comment:
Labels: baby, cochlear implants
Wednesday, January 23, 2013
--
Posted by Melinda Morgan at 10/05/2012 1 comment:
Labels: Cochlear implant activation, cochlear implants, connexin 26,
infant toddler cochlear implant
Tuesday, August 28, 2012
--
her 1st brithday, but we are so thankful that she is going to turn 1
with both cochlear implants surgeries completed and a lifetime of
listening ahead of her.
--
Thursday, May 24, 2012
Lauren's Cochlear Implant Activation
Lauren's cochlear implant activation on the left side was yesterday.
She did very well. We were able to get a response from her and set the
--
Posted by Melinda Morgan at 5/24/2012 2 comments:
Labels: Cochlear implant activation, connexin 26, infant toddler
cochlear implant, lumps around cochlear implant
Monday, April 30, 2012
--
Posted by Melinda Morgan at 4/30/2012
Labels: Cochlear implant activation, cochlear implants, congenital
deafness, connexin 26, infant toddler cochlear implant
Thursday, March 8, 2012
--
it was known right away that Lauren would ultimately need cochlear
implants, this is an interim solution.  Hearts for Hearing attempts to
provide hearing aids to families who are residents of Oklahoma through
--
his, and he knows that Lauren will eventually have the cochlear
implants.
[IMG_4593.jpg]
--
providing some access to sound.  To what extent, I don't know.  We know
the end result with her diagnosis is bilateral cochlear implantation.
We have met with the surgeon and are working on that timeline.  In the
--
Posted by Melinda Morgan at 1/06/2012 8 comments:
Labels: connexin 26, infant toddler cochlear implant, newborn abr
Thursday, April 21, 2011
hearing loss, and the journey of getting and utilizing cochlear
implants. Both have congenital deafness due to the Connexin 26 gene
mutation.
--
Last Thursday, I took Taylor back to the Hough Ear Institute.  We
always try to watch the implant area closely for redness or irritation.
Occasionally, infections can occur.  Taylor's dad noticed when putting
--
that tick!!  I hate ticks but what a celebration to know that all is
well with the cochlear implant.  :)
Posted by Melinda Morgan at 9/19/2010 No comments:
Labels: lumps around cochlear implant
One Year Earniversary and Conversations with Taylor
--
to countless therapy sessions, doctor’s appointments, hearing aid
fittings, cochlear implant mappings, and more.
Here’s to the Moms who work hard to be their child’s best advocate and
--
Posted by Melinda Morgan at 3/08/2010 No comments:
Labels: cochlear implants, signing time, your baby can read
Newer Posts Older Posts Home
hearing loss, and the journey of getting and utilizing cochlear
implants. Both have congenital deafness due to the Connexin 26 gene
mutation.
--
Posted by Melinda Morgan at 2/05/2010 2 comments:
Labels: CI in water, cochlear implants, Disney, SeaWorld
Sunday, January 10, 2010
--
Posted by Melinda Morgan at 10/26/2009 3 comments:
Labels: cochlear implants, toddler
Wednesday, October 14, 2009
--
A frequent conversation among parents of little ones with cochlear
implants -- How are you keeping them on your little roly-poly,
wrestling, climbing toddler?
--
Taylor Talks!!
Taylor had her cochlear implants activated 4 weeks ago... On Wednesday,
we thought we heard her say a word but weren't for sure. On Thursday,
--
he was deaf, June 8, was working toward this moment. And although we
believed in the technology of the cochlear implant and the therapy that
we have been working on, and even having met other children that have
only had the implants for a few months or years, still I was prepared
for nothing and afraid to hope for all...
--
Posted by Melinda Morgan at 10/10/2009 2 comments:
Labels: Cochlear implant activation, talking
Thursday, October 1, 2009
--
I continue to be amazed by Taylor's ability to adapt to the new world
of sound, and I am so thankful that cochlear implants exist.
Posted by Melinda Morgan at 10/01/2009 1 comment:
--
Another Dimension!!
Taylor had her cochlear implants activated on September 9 and 10, 2009.
Age 15 months.
--
it will help her recognize words. It is going to be fun to see how she
picks it all up. We are so thankful that cochlear implants exist.
BLING! We have been having fun decorating her "Ears." Today she had
--
Posted by Melinda Morgan at 9/13/2009 6 comments:
Labels: Cochlear implant activation
Tuesday, September 8, 2009
--
and outgoing children that I have ever known. There is much controversy
about getting CI implants in deaf children before they have the ability
to make the choice for themselves. I hope that by doing this, we are
--
Tuesday, September 1, 2009
We want Cochlear Implants, stat!
There is such a range of emotions that parents experience when finding
--
us anywhere. What to do? We had done research before the diagnosis, and
knew cochlear implants would be our preference for Taylor if she was
profoundly deaf. Let me give you an idea of what the summer was like:
--
meeting at Hearts for Hearing, our audioverbal therapy center in OkC.
August 10 - BILATERAL COCHLEAR IMPLANT surgery at the Hough Ear
Institute!! Age 14 mo.
--
elected SEE, Sign Exact English. Nucleus Freedom or Advanced Bionics -
elected Cochlear's Nucleus Freedom. Implant on one side or both? BOTH!
Simultaneous or Bilateral surgery? She had both implants done at the
ame time. What colors of implants? What types of processors? What
causes deafness? How do we get genetic testing? Do we drive 7 hours
--
Posted by Melinda Morgan at 9/01/2009 9 comments:
Labels: advanced bionics, cochlear implants, connexin 26, genetic
causes of deafness, nucleus freedom
--
most magical laugh. I hope it doesn't change once she can "hear" with
the cochlear implants. Taylor was ahead of the milestones on physical
development, across the board. She started walking at just over 10
--
Posted by Melinda Morgan at 6/08/2009 2 comments:
Labels: cochlear implants, congenital deafness, connexin 26
Newer Posts Home
