Cochlear Implant Journey Category Feed Read My Lips WordPress.com

Read My Lips
Sharing stories of hearing loss
Skip to content
Category Archives: My Cochlear Implant Journey
← Older posts
Glass half full or half empty?
Posted on December 1, 2015 | 8 comments
Last week I received a new processor for my cochlear implant. The
processor is the tiny computer that translates sounds in the
environment to a code. The electrodes in my implant use this code to
end a message to my brain that I have heard the sound. I must admit
that I have a difficult time believing I have had this marvelous
invention for only three years. It seems like a lifetime and I can
hardly remember what life was like before my cochlear implant.
There are still challenges, especially when I can’t read a speaker’s
lips, but they are far outweighed by the experiences that now go in my
‘life-half-full’ glass. My new processor includes a special receiver
that connects both my hearing aid and implant with the personal FM that
I wear in groups to boost the sound. So I am now hearing in stereo!
Just two days after receiving this new processor, I attended a special
music concert at church. I was amazed at how much better the music was
this time, even more than that first time I experienced music with my
implant at the Symphony, some eighteen months ago. I could hear very
oft sounds distinctly. It’s really quite something.
The percussionist who provided some of these soft sounds sat up very
tall in his seat and hid the speaker’s head from the pulpit. I tried to
lean across him so that I could see the speaker’s lips, but was almost
in my seat mate’s lap! So I missed hearing most of what the speaker
aid. There was a short video about Advent and an explanation in a
child’s voice about the first candle of hope. I was able to get the
gist of the message but unable to hear it all. It would have been nice
to have had the video captioned so I could read what she said. My local
newspaper, like many, has an extensive catalogue of videos on its
webpage. But much to my dismay, none of the videos are captioned. I had
a good talk with the customer rep and she thinks it’s an idea whose
time has come. Hopefully I will be able to hear some of my favorite
columnists sometime in the future. We’ll see.
And while my implant has improved my life in immeasurable ways, I still
experience trepidation in any waiting room wondering if I will hear my
name being called. This is a very common concern for anyone with a
hearing loss. Even though we do hear our name above all other sounds,
the anxiety of missing is always there, especially when there is more
than one door where the person is calling from. I was in such a waiting
room just last week. It took me a while to realize that those calling
out the names were coming from an entrance behind me. Oh dear – did I
miss? I quickly moved so I would be in the line of sight of this door
and was able to see the person mouthing my name when I was eventually
called. Whew.
So glass half empty or half full? No question – entirely full. A very
good friend of mine told me the other day how much she admired how I
had dealt with the many challenges of deafness over the years. To me,
they aren’t really challenges, just steps along the way, even if they
are sometimes one step forward and two steps back. I can now experience
when I can hear that beautiful music.
Share this:
Like this:
Like Loading...
8 Comments
Posted in My Cochlear Implant Journey
More on music and cochlear implants
Posted on December 4, 2014 | 3 comments
Last June I wrote about my success hearing music with my implant. Since
that time I have been trying to explain the difference between hearing
‘normal sounding’ musical sounds and hearing these sounds with a
cochlear implant, to help others understand the enormity of this
milestone.
I had a meeting with my implant rehab therapist earlier this week and
he found this great illustration. (see link below) I want to share it
with you – both those of you who are implant users and those who might
know someone with an implant. I think this is an easy way to understand
what we go through trying to hear music with a cochlear implant,
especially when the implant’s sounds overpower the sounds from the
non-implanted ear.
Some people with cochlear implants never reach the ‘normal’ stage;
others get there fairly quickly. It took me almost two years. My brain
had to reach back more than 60 years in its auditory memory for these
very complex sounds.
I now hear the ‘normal’ sounding music with both my implant and my
hearing-aided ear and I am greatly enjoying this newly rediscovered
pleasure.
Here is the link. You need to scroll down a bit to find the
illustration but I think it is worth it.
http://auditoryneuroscience.com/prosthetics/music
3 Comments
Tagged hearing music
The Symphony
Posted on June 16, 2014 | 8 comments
Those of you who are regular readers of my blog know about my struggles
to hear music. While I could hear simple one-note tunes fairly early
on, the more complex music of a symphony was beyond my reach. Until
now.
Last week I attended a concert that featured among other pieces,
Beethoven’s Piano Concerto No. 3 in C Minor, Op. 37. For those of you
unfamiliar with this particular piece, the pianist’s fingers are
literally flying over the keys for much of it. I heard every note.
There was still a Darth Vaderish quality to the lowest registers and I
could not pick up the pizzicato of the violins, but the last time I can
remember hearing so much, so clearly would have been at least 40 years
ago. And I think the sound is actually clearer now.
It IS the implant that is making the difference here. A couple of times
during the concert I took off my cochlear implant processor so I could
get a sense of what I was hearing with just my hearing aid alone. It
was very little and very soft. When I put the processor back on, the
ound not only increased tenfold but it was MUSIC I was hearing in both
ears, not noise. Stereophonic sound! This was no fluke.
And how appropriate that my re-introduction to music was a piece by
Beethoven.
When I was four years old, a few months before I became deaf, I was at
a Christmas party. The Master of Ceremonies asked if any of us knew the
words to a brand new holiday song called Rudolph the Red Nose Reindeer.
I put up my hand and was invited up to the stage. Someone put red
lipstick on my nose and, with what I imagined to be a full band behind
me [likely a piano and possibly a double bass], I sang the song. That
was a seminal moment in my very young life as I realized how much I
enjoyed performing. The concert last week was another.
I have one more task – feeling confident using my implant on the phone
– and that will take some time yet. But my “cochlear implant
expectation check list” is almost complete, so this will be the final
entry of my cochlear implant journey, almost two years after I received
this amazing device.
I still plan to offer thoughts on hearing loss issues from time to time
and of course would enjoy hearing and publishing your stories on my
blog so please do send them along to me. In the meantime, I am going to
go listen to some music!
You can’t always get what you want in life
Posted on April 3, 2014 | 7 comments
But to paraphrase that Rolling Stones oldie, you just might find out
that you get what you need.
One of the biggest challenges for me is music. I have written in this
blog on several occasions about my experiences hearing music with my
implant. I could hear the true notes of simple tunes like Twinkle
Twinkle Little Star with a week or so of practicing but a complex piece
of music sung by a choir still sounds very Darth Vader-like.
So when my audiologist asked if I would like to participate in a
research project for music therapy, I jumped at the chance. Here was
the opportunity I was waiting for. I would devote 30 minutes every day
for a month listening to and trying to identify specific musical
ounds. It would be a great success and I would start to enjoy music
once again.
Ah. It did not quite happen that way. Let me tell you a bit about the
therapy itself. The patterns are atonal so you cannot easily memorize
them. And as with all learning, they become more difficult as you go
through the sections – nine in all, with several tasks in each one. For
each task, you are presented with two patterns, each slightly different
and played within a larger selection of music. The test is to identify
when you hear one of the two patterns. Seemed easy enough. Not!
For one thing, the notes I heard with my implant did not always
correspond with the placement of the notes on the screen. I know music.
Before I lost most of my hearing, I played piano and violin and sang in
the choir and glee club. I can read music and my brain still retains
the musical memory so I know what it should sound like. The patterns in
this therapy program appeared as notes on a staff (well, a seven line
one) and I could hear in my mind what the sound should be. What I
actually heard surprised me. In many cases instead of hearing notes
that on the computer screen went up the scale, I heard them going down
or vice versa. Very odd.
Eventually after much practice, I was able to hear some of the patterns
as they should sound but there were still several that defeated me, so
I just listened for what I actually heard rather than what I thought I
hould hear and was able to move through the sections reasonably
quickly.
Then I hit section nine, the final section. Two weeks into my therapy
month I hit section nine, task one. At the end of the month I was still
on section nine, task one! I just could not get enough correct answers
to move forward and the program doesn’t allow you to skip. I made sure
I had a glass of wine at the ready each day after I finished the
required half-hour. I would check the clock and stop at precisely 30
minutes. It was extremely frustrating, but I finally completed the
requisite four weeks this past weekend and on Tuesday went back for my
post test.
When I had my initial appointment a month ago, I was told that the
researchers were finding that this therapy had a positive side
effect.There may be a connection between music and speech. Many
participants discovered that their ability to understand speech
improved over the month. And my test results showed that as well. My
ability to understand bits of speech in a noisy environment almost
doubled from the first test a month ago.
A couple of weeks ago I was at a meeting of about 20 people. I was
trying out a new personal F/M system that augments the sounds I get
from my hearing-aided left ear and decided to sit at the back of the
room for this meeting just to see how good the F/M was. I have NEVER
at at the back of the room for anything. I was always placed at the
front in school and while I heard the teacher when she faced me, never
got the benefit of being one of the ‘disruptive kids’ who had so much
more fun in the back. Well, I heard just about everything at this
meeting. My new F/M undoubtedly helped but I have a feeling that the
dreaded section nine, task one played a key role as well.
I need to understand speech better. The more I understand, the less
tired I am and the more I can participate in life. I can still hear
ome music with my hearing-aided ear even if I can’t get the full power
and scope. So while it was a drag at the time, I really did get what I
needed from this therapy.
And a PS. I saw a different researcher for my post test. She explained
that cochlear implants are designed for speech, not music and music
involves a totally different signal. There is rhythm, there are
dynamics but most especially there is pitch. Speech generally covers a
frequency range from 250 to 8,000 hertz. Music goes up to 16,000 hertz.
Clearly there are some missing pieces and this helps to explain why I
hear a range of notes that go down when the screen tells me they are
going up. The brain is not getting the right signal and cannot
accurately process what it hears. The research continues.
7 Comments
My Cochlear Implant Journey: the year that changed everything
Posted on September 17, 2013 | 8 comments
A year ago today my cochlear implant was activated and I began my
journey to hear again. While preparing for this anniversary edition I
read through the early posts and I am amazed at how far I have come. I
had my first annual hearing test with the implant just a week ago to
ee how much I am actually hearing with my implant alone and with my
implant and hearing aid together. Prior to being approved for the
implant two years ago I took a number of tests, most particularly one
that tests your ability to hear sentences over cocktail party noises.
That time I got one right. This time I managed to get about half of
them right with just my implant. That is the proof of the pudding. Now
these tests are in a controlled environment; the speakers enunciate
clearly; and the noise level is not that loud so I can’t compare this
with real life. Still from a success rate of 2% to nearly 50% tells me
that my implant is working pretty well!
During those first few weeks after the implant was activated I
practiced hearing words without reading lips. Now I can manage a
telephone conversation of 30 minutes or more using my implant. Granted,
my conversations are only with people whose voices I can easily
understand. The sound is scratchy and not always clear but I can hear
pretty much everything. And they are real conversations, gossip and
all.
But the other more telling proof for me in some ways is that I can hear
the phone ringing from other rooms and other floors in the house just
with my implant alone. Before I received the implant and using only my
hearing aid, I could not hear the phone ring unless I was in the same
room. The same for people knocking on my front door. Pre-implant when I
was expecting someone, such as a repair person or neighbour, I had to
it in the living room close to the door because otherwise I wouldn’t
hear them knock. Now I can hear the knock from just about anywhere in
my house.
Some other firsts:
This past weekend I watched a bit of the Davis Cup with friends. The
volume was not loud enough for me to hear what the commentators were
actually saying but I heard the thwack of the tennis ball – first time
for that.
As a passenger in the front seat of the car, I carried on a
conversation with the person in the back seat. It was dark and I could
not lip read. This has not happened for many, many years – perhaps even
before I lost my hearing some sixty years ago. It doesn’t happen every
time. It depends on the speaker’s voice and the environmental sounds
inside and outside the car. But it was an amazing breakthrough for me.
I still have challenges hearing in groups but I’m convinced that will
improve over time. I have started a new computer therapy program (see
note below) that involves trying to lip read a speaker against a lot of
background noise. This program boasts up to a 40% increase over the
period of a year in a person’s ability to understand speech in noisy
environments. We’ll see!
Others have remarked on how much more relaxed I appear. The worry lines
and stress caused by straining to hear what was going on that showed up
on my face seemed to dissipate as the year progressed. Perhaps I was
even looking younger! And my dentist, who hadn’t seen me for six months
thought my pronunciation was crisper. That makes sense to me. If I can
hear myself better, I can also correct my own speech automatically.
During my first year review last week with the audiologist, as she was
testing the implant’s processor I kept hearing a swishing sound. I
thought there was something wrong with the processor so I mentioned it
to her the next time I heard this sound. What I was hearing was the
pneumatic sound of a door closing down the hall. This was a brand new
ound for me.
A month or so ago, I was working in my office, windows open to catch
the summer breezes. I kept hearing sounds that would last for several
econds, then stop for a second, then start again. Now I should tell
you that I live in an old house so assumed at first that these sounds
were ‘house sounds’. I decided to walk around the house to try to
figure out what the sounds were. At one point I looked outside. What I
was hearing were voices of some people on the sidewalk. I couldn’t
distinguish what they were saying but I heard them.
Until recently when at a restaurant, I always looked for the seat
against a wall to muffle the background sounds behind me, allowing me
to concentrate on the voices in front of me. Now, as long as I can see
the faces for lip reading (and that usually means 4-5 people), it
doesn’t much matter where I sit.
Music has been a major challenge because it is such a complex auditory
process. I could hear individual notes fairly early on with my implant
but not a more intricate piece of music. About six months ago I
listened to the choir at church singing an anthem using just my implant
and did not hear ANY music at all. All I heard were the voices speaking
– sort of like a Greek chorus. This past Sunday I tried it again and
actually heard some musical sounds. The sounds were an octave lower
than normal and were similar to the buzzing noise from the day my
implant was activated – just like they were when I first tried to hear
individual musical notes. But I could hear differences in tone and
could tell higher notes from lower. I must admit I did not have a lot
of hope that I could hear music with my implant. I worried when I lose
the hearing in my better ear and would need to rely solely on my
implant, music would be lost to me. Now I know that won’t happen. It
may take another year or even longer, but I will hear music.
There were so many firsts this past year. Some sounds are still robotic
and unclear. The implant is loud and my brain is still working on
filtering out extraneous sounds. At the moment, blasts from a noisy
room still create hearing challenges and the fatigue that follows
training to hear and understand. But it is eons from a year ago when I
found it challenging to understand just a few words in a quiet
environment.
The day before my surgery last year I wrote a very short post on my
blog about the sound I was most looking forward to hearing once my
implant was working. It was the call of the loon. While I have not been
near a loon to test this out, I have no doubt that I could hear it now.
I have discovered that keeping things in perspective is an important
component of success with cochlear implants. The other day a retired
teacher of the deaf, on learning that I was approaching my first
anniversary with the implant said, “Oh, it is still very new for you.”
I realized that a year is just the beginning and I have many more
uccesses to look forward to. Stay tuned!
NOTE: Some of you have been asking about the computer program that
helps with background noise. It is called Read My Quips and you can
find out more at http://www.sensesynergy.com
A forced rest and two lessons
Posted on June 9, 2013 | 6 comments
I have not posted anything on my blog for a month and there is a good
reason for that. I have been ill and had to take some pretty heavy duty
pain killers for about three weeks or so. Taking these pills resulted
in two things. First, I slept – a lot! And when you sleep, you don’t
wear any of the external parts of your implant so I wasn’t getting the
usual sound stimulation. And secondly my brain pretty much turned to
mush so I also wasn’t thinking very well. In fact a couple of weeks ago
I composed a very brief email to one of my clients and had to re-write
it three times so it would make sense! A posting was not in the cards.
I’m fine now but have noticed that being without my external processor
for so long has resulted in my going backwards a bit. I’m not hearing
as well as I was before. Some of this is due to the normal fatigue that
comes with illness, but the main reason I think is that my brain is out
of practice.
So a couple of lessons for me. One, my audiologist is right – I do need
to wear the external processor from the moment I get up to the moment I
go to sleep. I generally do this but there are times when I really want
to cut out the noises of life. Even though it is sometimes a relief to
be in a totally silent world, it is not a good idea.
Another lesson for me – and this is a bigger one I think – is that the
progress I have made in my ability to hear and understand sound over
the past eight months is perceptible, even when I haven’t thought it
was. The fact that I noticed a reduction in my progress from not
wearing the processor for a few weeks actually tells me that I am aware
of what I have accomplished. I do hope this makes sense! This is an
important lesson for me at this stage of my development with the
implant because the progress I make now is tiny and not always truly
noticeable. So even when I feel I am not moving ahead, I actually am.
My brain is getting better all the time at interpreting sound.
To add proof to this particular pudding, this morning in church, urged
on by one of my friends, I decided to ‘test’ my ability to hear complex
music with just the implant. To backtrack a bit, last December I tried
this test for the first time. At that stage in my development, I was
able to distinguish individual notes but not the complex sounds of a
choral piece. While the choir was singing the anthem last December, I
took out my hearing aid (which does allow me to hear some music) and
just listened with my cochlear implant. There was no musical sound at
all. All I heard was the choir speaking words. It actually reminded me
of a Greek chorus because there was a cadence to the words. But no
music. This morning when I tried the test again, I heard a little of
the music the choir was singing. Tiny steps.
6 Comments
The best and the worst
Posted on April 24, 2013 | 1 comment
The other day someone asked me what is the best sound I have heard so
far with my implant and what is the worst. This is a very interesting
question and I had to think about my answer.
The challenge I have is that I can hear using my left, non-implanted
ear and a very strong hearing aid. So there are sounds that I hear with
my hearing aid that I like (voices of family and friends for example)
and some that I don’t (the beeping sound of a truck backing up). But
new sounds with my implant? Hmm.
It is raining quite hard today. I tend to wear just the processor for
my right implanted ear rather than the processor plus my hearing aid
whenever I can to help my brain practice listening for sounds and I
hear the rain pounding. I also hear the seconds tick by on a very old
wall clock in my office. Neither sound is particularly appealing to me
but they are sounds I could not hear before with just my hearing aid.
Are they the worst? No, I don’t think so.
I have talked in this blog about my struggles with music and certainly
hearing all the notes independently when I dusted the piano a few
months ago is right up there with the best.
The truth is that there were so many sounds that I did not hear –
either at all or not very well – before my implant that pretty much
every sound now is the best and there are none I can really call the
worst, at least not yet.
I am still waiting to hear music in stereo with both my ears. And of
course the sound of the loon, my particular personal goal. Ask me a
year from now and I’ll bet I have a more definite answer.
1 Comment
Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive
notifications of new posts by email.
Join 47 other followers
____________________
Follow
Blog at WordPress.com. The Coraline Theme.
Follow “Read My Lips”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Sign me up
Build a website with WordPress.com
IFRAME: likes-master
%d bloggers like this:
____________________________________________________________
Post to
Cancel Reblog Post
