
Sound of Cochlear Implant
Showing posts with label Cochlear Implant. Show all posts
Tuesday, October 5, 2010
Alerting Systems
For a long time , I've been researching alerting systems to install in
my flat.
I might have the CI , but essentially , I'm deaf . I do hear
enviromental noises , and speech ( and my speech discrimination is
going up slowly but surely.
Also don't forget..when I'm sleeping , or in the shower , or even just
taking a break from hearing..what happens ?
At first I thought I'd get the cheaper option - a Geemarc alerter
device with a remote doorbell.It was only 100€ in Greece.
I was told that the remote doorbell might be stolen , and anyway , I
couldn't drill anything outside my door.There was still also the
downstairs door buzzer to consider.So that was discarded.
Back to square one.
It was only this or the Bellman Visit 868 system in Greece.
The latter works a different way.The Door transmitter is hooked up
beside the actual doorbell , programmed and it 'remembers' the sound of
the doorbell to transmit an alert to the Bellman 868 receivers ( it
also can be expanded with a baby monitor, fire alarm , telephone
monitor , etc ) and has a host of receivers to get what suits you
better.A friend loaned me the grey small pager to try out , and I got
the Door Transmitter , hooked it up and I tried out the whole system.It
works beautifully, dispelling all my doubts that I had initially ,
ince it was completely wireless.It works like a charm ( had it for two
weeks now , works better than I even thought! )
A thing that Bellman should make is a plug option for the travelling
people ( in the age we live , where everyone travels , it's a must ! )
and also something that would be installable in the bathroom without
needing any plugs. ( I , for one , do not have ANY plugs in the
bathroom , or , at least any that are working , LOL ) And it would work
with a battery ( with the ability to be switched on when you get to the
bathroom to save up battery juice ! ) but maybe I'm dreaming.Who knows.
I'm researching my next options to be honest.I'd love to have money to
fully outfit my condo , but I had only enough money for one door
transmitter , and I'm planning to get another for the buzzer , sometime
oon.Then next, who knows , it'll be based on what I'll learn.
Journaled by Vivie at 1:04 AM
Reactions:
IFRAME: reactions
No comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: alerting systems, bellman, CI, Cochlear Implant, geemarc
Wednesday, September 30, 2009
I need to vent...
I just need to get it off..
Sometimes some days are GREAT with my CI.
Others are not so great but I cope.Because I want to hear!
Some days I'm so thankful for the chance to hear again and to be able ,
just today , to discriminate some words from the tv.Or other things on
other days.
But my progress has been slow and frustrating.Maybe my audie needs to
get a better map for me.Maybe he isn't competent enough.Maybe I'm just
one of the tricky patients.Or maybe I should speak up more on mapping
points.
Another aspect is that nobody warns you about the changes ,
transitions.Not the ones from the sound , but the change from Hearing
aids to CI BTE's.
I went from a Widex hearing aid Senso+ P38 ( I don't know how powerful
it was , but I had it for 10 years , and it worked well for me.Served
me well.Before that I couldn't even imagine talking on the phone , not
to mention other things. ) which I have still in a drawer , in it's
case , like I used to do every night.I can't even give it away to
Lion's Heart or something similar, just to help people , because I'm
till emotionally attached to it.
I still expect to wear my Senso, even if I'm 16 months implanted , and
going.
But I also remember one thing clearly.That my hearing aid used to be so
light.I couldn't feel it at all.
Or maybe I'm not attached to my CI yet.Maybe it is because it's so
troublesome.Or it is maybe because I had it less than two years.( For
anyone wondering , I'm just a person that doesn't do anything if she's
not emotionally attached to it.Just because.Especially when it comes to
omething that I will have for life.)
When my CI was on my ear , it was still SO numb that I couldn't feel
the weight.You see , I was activated soon after CI op ( something close
to 3-7 days , I can't remember , and I can't be bothered right now to
check )
I was feeling like my ear was going down a few days later.No , my
actual ear , not my hearing.That's when I googled on CI blogs.I found
an unimaginable trove of information , and a lot more.Before my CI
operation I had logged on CI brands homepages and researched.My choice
was obvious , because I didn't like MEDEL ( it was the only other
option offered to me ) and I tried to contact the CI people in
Greece.We even have a club.Which, is not active.the webpage wasn't even
functional.their forum wouldn't let you register.UGH!
When I heard that activation abroad was a month later , I was floored.I
also started to suspect that my early activation might be the culprit
for all my ear troubles.
Because when I'm pulling my CI , I don't feel relieved because I can
relax.Or that I can have some peace.I feel relieved , well , because I
think , there goes the weight off my ear.
I tried the shoulderworn approach.It was very helpful and useful.(
Thanks Kylie ) but , I'm so used to wear something on my ear that I
don't feel right.Also that isn't workable anymore because I lost both
of my pouches that Kylie generously provided me.
I decided to order a Snugfit when I went to get my controller
replaced.The office that represents Cochlear in Greece , didn't have
any in stock.It had only a child sized pair.They had to order some from
Switzerland.I ordered a brown large pair.They wanted to be paid
upfront.I told them I will pay on delivery because I need my money for
going back home ( I was on Athens after having to see Rachel off from
airport ).Also I had dealt with other companies like these that always
promised delivery , got your money , and then they couldn't even recall
the order.UGH.So they promised to deliver it.I ordered them to be
delivered at my parents home, so they can sign it off and get
it.Because of my mapping that I can't hear my $^%& doorbell to get the
delivery.And on the estimated dates , I was supposed to be on a day
trip somewhere.
Well big surprise here.The snugfit , two weeks later hasn't been
delivered either here or my parents' home.They promised a four day
delivery at the very least.
and today I snapped.My ear started again tingling and stating that it
had enough.I got CI off, switched it off , twisted controller off and
wore it again like that.Just the processor, without the controller
part.And I feel like bliss , but I also feel like I want to hear.And
that drives me crazy.
I can wear the full BTE for four to five hours without my ear
complaining.After that all bets are off.
I even go without CI when I'm home , just to not have to think about
it.Everybody that has seen me , can attest to it.
I always planned to get a babyworn cord , because here in Greece we
don't have backup CI's.And I like being able to get the BTE when I go
out.But somehow , it gets on the backburner.I have to pay for that
bill.I have to repair something.
Maybe I had a bad week and I'm getting it off on the CI.Who knows.The
thing that I know right now is that my ear approves from just the
processor on the ear , that says that is just right.
Maybe Cochlear should provide with everything in their box.Even a
babyworn even if it's for adults box.Snugfits.
Some insurances won't cover for anything else except the CI operation
you see.And CI's are expensive.
Even the Coil costs double the price here.Even the setup for Babyworn.
and I'm back on plain batteries because I shouldn't have brought my
charger in that sucky hotel.Now it's not working right , and I found it
was the power cord which needs to get replaced.
My coil is giving signs of dying out , it starts to crackle.Thankfully
omeone sent me a free coil a while ago, out of her heart's goodness.Hi
yourself if you're reading that!
I also want to pay someone back , but my bank is giving me trouble with
paying back abroad.
I also had a nightmare experience when I had to go to a private
practice to get my teeth x-rayed.I had to get a front and a side xray.I
removed my CI.Immediately my ear went like WHEW the weight is off.That
just made me feel inadequate.and I couldn't hear.Then I was told in no
uncertain terms that I have to remove my glasses.Well , I removed
them.The lady kept talking to me.I couldn't see her clearly enough to
lipread so I put them back on.She was cross.I told her that I'm deaf
already, and without my glasses , I'm all but blind as I can't see her
well enough to lipread her.She was cross but I stood my ground.She
finally saw my point so I sat on the xray machine while she directed
me.when I was all set she went you can get them off.I got them off ,
but the little squabble added to my frustration.I was pleasant and
everything , but inside I was fuming to myself for feeling inadequate
enough.
At least I scared the xray people with seeing a cord thing in my side
xray.That was the ground wire or the electrode.LOL.The doctor came back
outside and asked me what the hell was that did I wear anything on my
hair.Then he stopped on his tracks as he saw my hair was so short that
no ornament could have sat there.I told him about CI operation and
raised some awareness.He was interested to learn that.He wanted to ask
more but he had to xray more people.*smile*
And I had to pay in the front desk for the xrays.*grumble*
Greece has a lot of expensive things AND bureaucracy.
Right now I just want to forget where I'm living.To forget that I have
the farmer's insurance in Greece , which is the WORSE insurance in
Greece.It won't even cover ANY of my dental plans ( much less any of CI
related stuff , except for CI operation ) , and I discovered it this
afternoon , it definitely won't cover the braces I need.Or the wisdom
teeth removal that I'll go under in Nov.So my family has to fork over
the money , just because.
Whew , I feel a lot better.But I also don't want to burden anyone
else.Sorry.But I just want to take it off.
I just hope tomorrow will be in a positive way.Or I just had a
particular bad day.
Journaled by Vivie at 12:42 AM
Labels: babyworn, braces, CI awareness, Cochlear Implant, Dental,
insurance, Pouch, xray
Saturday, September 26, 2009
A visit ,a cracked processor and a lot of thoughts.
A few weeks ago I had a visit from the fabulous Rachel Chaikof who is
very vibrant and nice - I think I made another friend.
Everyone knows that Rachel is a great advocate for CI's.She also is
bilateral ( something that is exceedingly rare in Greece , although I
can hear some scattered bilaterals here and there in Greece.), and she
has been giving me tips on advocating and I've been telling her all
about the situation here.
Here is me and Rachel on the Castles of Salonica , a place at the upper
parts of Thessaloniki.This pic was taken with permission from her site
I had a lot of fun with Rachel, but about pics and places - go to her
ite she has about traveling.
We went to Thessaloniki's places and we also tried Athitos ( or Afitos
as we Greeks say it , that place has two names ) , Rachel , remember
the old granny? LOL. We also went to Athens and Acropolis and a lot of
other places.I wish she could visit again sometimes so we can plan more
trips around here.She made me see my country with new eyes....
I also had the chance to see someone that is bilateral, because as I
aid earlier , that practice here is non- existent, although I've been
wanting that for myself , but I can't afford it.
I noticed a LOT of differences , and I'm certainly going to try and go
bilateral.I am waiting on an email from my insurance that I'm pretty
ure it will come back negative.But I've been persuaded after ONE trip
to port bay where I couldn't hear ANYTHING while she could hear me so
good that I was floored , and I had a lot of thinking about it.
Rachel also tries a lot of things that I don't try , such as Telecoil -
which was pretty disastrous with my hearing aid - all I could hear was
noise and nothing else , and it's been the same when I first tried my
CI.The culprit now was my laptop fan which overwhelms everything else ,
I tried using it in buses , and other places when I'm away from laptop
, and to my surprise it works better than I was expecting!
She also suggested to go for a better map and I'm certainly going to do
that after elections occur ( right now I have no desire to trek down to
CI centre and get nightmare traffic jams , I'm not that masohistic! )
I was so pleased to meet Rachel and I hope she comes again sometimes ,
he certainly is welcome here.We also share the love of knowing new CI
implantees , which I do here in Greece.Right now I'm in the proccess of
helping a new candidate take the decision for her implant ( she's going
for Cochlear too ) and helping her with a lot of advice.
I certainly feel more enriched and with a different perspective , and
although she's certainly gone through so much and still have a vibrant
mile , made me want to do the same and try and make some changes.
On other news , while Rachel was here , the Nucleus 5 was unveiled ,
which got me pretty excited.I also posed the question to Cochlear
forums when that is going to be approved in Greece and I was directed
to Damplaid Inc , which is the representative of Cochlear here in
Greece.UGH!
Cochlear needs to open its own offices here in Greece , Damplaid is
taking advantage of having the representacy and has pretty high
prices.But that is certainly something I've blogged about.
Also I've stopped using the rechargeables for the time being - since I
got back from Athens my cord charger isn't working right, and I'm
afraid of putting it in case it does something worse, as I've paid for
my batteries , so I need to be careful,I certainly need to replace the
power cord sometime.For the time being I'm on plain batteries ( which I
need to spend anyway as they 're from last year and they going to
expire. ) , and that made me remember why I made the switch ( aside
from economical and ecological reasons ) was that I always fumbled with
the small batteries and I always would lose one.I lost one on the
tairs today.ugh.
Also , Rachel saw my CI one day when we were trying to find a solution
for it to stay on my ear and mentioned that I have a cracked controller
- WHAT - and I was so embarassed I didn't notice.My CI is so dark that
I never noticed.I got that replaced though , easily , although I was a
bit shocked at the place where I got it replaced ( that is another blog
post though ) , but what concerns me , is a cracked processor affecting
hearing ? Because I definitely noticed a difference.I think my
processor was cracked for quite awhile , because now I can hear very
faintly the doorbell ( although only if I'm under it and if I know it's
GOING to ring ).
And Rachel's solution worked for few days , then it started again
falling out.UGH!! I've been checking thoroughly for another crack.So
far I've been lucky.The shoulder worn doesn't work so great now because
I need a safetypin pouch ( I'll have to order one )due to me wearing
high necked clothes but I'm also going to check out if I can find a
babyworn cord , see if that helps me.I don't mind how it appears , as
long as it helps me.
Regarding controllers cracks I've been checking other kids processors
in speech therapy and telling them to go replace them if they're under
warranty.Most of the parents are thankful about my advocating even to
them, as they know I'm just trying to help them.
Oooh , before I close I should share something.Rachel has that big
camera , which she let me try a few times , and I could hear her
hutter clicking.at first I was what the hell was that?then I
understood it and it started bugging me , as I couldn't hear my
camera's shutter.Well a few minutes ago I managed to hear it.YAY!
Anyway I should stop here or I'll go on forever.
Journaled by Vivie at 4:46 PM
Labels: babyworn, Cochlear Implant, cracked processor, Rachel Chaikof,
houlder worn, trips
Thursday, July 2, 2009
CI relationship status?
Since Kylie dearest sent me two pouches and a long coil , I've been
utilizing them as needed..
It's a choreography..when I'm about to go walking for losing weight ,
I'll pull on the pouch and long coil.
When I'm about to go to college , I'll wear the long coil for the ride
with pushes and shoves, and will switch to short one when I'm in my
eat.Off it goes to the way back.
When I had to cook I used the short coil with an hairband that I have ,
and sent Lissy the same too.Long coil sometimes flies off and
dangles.It goes on again for me to do the washing up.
I have a special pocket in my bag,it houses the music cord , and
whichever coil I'm not wearing , a pack of six pack batteries , and a
battery cage , and also the 2nd charged to go rechargeable for my CI.Oh
, and the hands free for my cell phone , which connects to my music
cord so I can make and HEAR calls.
Anyway , back to subject.CI isn't only for the active life , like Kylie
mentions , it's also for the pack mules.LOL , yeah , you heard me
right! I was armed for my short weekend away ,laptop bag on back ,
usual bag at my front , carrying a non-wheelie suitcase.Which was
HEAVY.Ahem , lopsided.
If I had short coil I'd had tucked away the CI, in my bag, I'm not
willing to lose it.
Long coil , no problem.I carried everything.Coil flipped off couple
times and I didn't even made a wild grab , to let anything drop , or
make me inattentive to road hazards.I just waited till I was in safe
ground , and calmly popped it into place.It gave me a feeling of
peaceful.Stress levels alarmingly low , like my HA.
And that put me in thought.
When I was first activated , I hated it.I loved it.Can u say confused?
Missed my HA.Terribly.I didn't miss it too much either.For a few weeks
I was going around with a piece of felt wool , replacing feeling of
earmold.I had felt like they had gotten something away for me.And I
eventually broke of the habit , when I started to get ridiculed.
But I hated the weight of CI..it was bulky.Weighty.My ear was sore.I
wore it when I had to , and didn't wore it at home , trying to get my
poor ear a break.
I also hated CI for the hole it made in my pocket with batteries.With
my HA , it was just a pack of batteries every month.Now I ate through
them like crazy , I'd need a 60 pack a month.Suddenly I was
overwhelmed.I also kept losing new or old pieces of em , crawling in
places to get them.Yes, I've even tried to crawl into driver's cubicle
in college bus.The old ones always went to recycle.
As you see , I hated CI with passion , and I loved it with equal
passion for almost to up to a year.
Now I just find myself , not only thanks to Kylie for her solution ,
but for my own choreography.For opting into rechargeables, and , yes ,
I'm aware they 'll die in a years' time , but in the meantime I've have
already invested into another pair of them.
Today I heard a bit of scrounching , which was when the bus driver put
his foot down to start the bus gently.
Pre pouch , I'd always be deaf , jostling made me fearing to lose
it.Now I just don't care.
I managed to hear more sounds today than any other time , and the whole
day I had gone shoulder way.I slept on the train with CI on so I could
hear my stop announcing.I had a nap with it on and heard my cell phone
going off , a text to go out , to have fun.
In the Metro ( tube for anyone that can't understand ) I could hear
BOTH in Greek and English the announcements for each stop.And I wasn't
EVEN paying attention.
A few months ago , when I 'd remove my CI I'd feel relief.Flooded with
it for finally it the time to get it into the Dry n Store and feel like
I wasn't in hyperdrive anymore.With not having to put up with it any
more.
Now , when I remove it, I just feel a sense of loss , taking a sense
away from me.When the battery finishes on it s own , and I won't
replace it as it's already bedtime, I feel lost.
Now if tinnitus wasn't welcoming in both sides of that world , I'd
finally get a bit of decent sleep.I've managed some brief pockets here
and there , but nothing more than a week.
I find myself in the position to say..I did choose well with the naming
of that blog.It's fitting.Sound of Cochlear Implant.
It's something so precious , and so simple too in the same time!
Journaled by Vivie at 7:11 PM
1 comment: Links to this post
Labels: CI, CI moments, Cochlear Implant, Long Coil, Pouch
Thursday, June 11, 2009
Why I Chose Cochlear?
It was widely available anywhere in the globe.The processor had the LCD
on the back , something that I find HIGHLY useful for ANY situation!
It is backwards and forwards compatible with any external of Cochlear.
I had found an Europe site that sold most of the Freedom things in
better prices , like the coils , batteries , magnets.The company here
in Greece has INFLATED prices.( more like triple prices )
No need for remote control ( it's useful , but I'd keep losing it! )
although there IS talk of newer BTE cochlear model with remote
control...
Also , I figured that more than half of people I'd contacted about CI
both in Greece and abroad , chosen Cochlear , so it couldn't go wrong.
Internal implant had 24 electrodes , and various mapping techniques,
especially for the Freedom implant.
Processor had the option of both , rechargeable , and plain batteries.I
use the rechargeable for day to day activities , but when I'm going to
a trip , I'm packing some plain in my laptop bag.That way , I don't
pend as many batteries as I should.And I always recycle the plain
ones.I like going green.And the disposable is handy, too.( the
rechargeable I think got out recently , but when I was implanted , it
was out )
It had the ability to connect to anything in a trice , without changing
anything ( I do believe the other companies , need special casings or
hooks , depending on the model )
It has separate buttons for each action , or seperate combinations too
to do some slight changes, like volume , sensitivity, or T-Coil , or
external equipment.Oh and change map slot too.
Plus , it has the child lock.it is advertised so the kids wouldn't play
with it , for kiddos that wear their implant.But I find it useful as I
have little hands getting my implant.I just let them see it for a bit
then put it on my ear again.no need to check anything!Peace of MIND!!!!
Last , Cochlear box had inside a Dry n Store box!it's too useful.If it
wasn't inside , I'd buy it , it saved my arse more times than I count.
The only complaint I've had from my implant is that it was heavy at
first ( compared to a hearing aid ) and that the plastic casing that
covers the socket for mp3 cords and stuff is peeling away.they should
redesign that.And I occasionaly use my mp3 player , or the tv cord.I
wonder what happened to the other Freedom users that use that every
day?
Journaled by Vivie at 2:20 AM
Labels: CI, Cochlear, Cochlear Implant, processor
Older Posts Home
Subscribe to: Posts (Atom)
NetworkedBlogs
Follow this blog
About Me
My Photo
Vivie
I am an 28 year old CI user! Hearing again the last two years
and enjoying it.:)
View my complete profile
Facebook Badge
Vivie Moraiti
Create Your Badge
Followers
Blog Archive
There was an error in this gadget
Labels
alerting systems (1) allergy (1) amplifications (1) babyworn (3)
bellman (1) books (1) braces (2) cables (1) christmas (1) christmas
magic (1) CI (7) CI art (1) CI awareness (2) CI moments (5) Cochlear
(1) Cochlear Implant (5) coil (1) cracked processor (1) Dental (1) fall
(1) FM system (1) geemarc (1) insurance (1) Long Coil (1) music. (1)
Pouch (2) presents (1) processor (1) Rachel Chaikof (2) riots in greece
(1) shoulder worn (1) summer (1) surgery (1) surgery diary (1) trips
(1) voting (1) xray (1)
Awesome Inc. template. Template images by cmisje. Powered by Blogger.
