[cochlearwarmasthead.gif]

IMPLANTEES’ VIEW
Persons who have received cochlear implants, whether voluntarily or
involuntarily, are an invaluable resource in our community. If you are
an implantee, we encourage you to share your story with us. If you are
a deaf person with a currently-functioning implant, what has your
experience been? Has it been good? Bad? If your parents made the choice
for you when you were a child, how do you feel about it? How has your
experience been? And if you’re one of the growing number of deaf people
who have stopped using their implants or have even had them surgically
removed, we’d like to ?read? from you. Please E-mail us at editor (at)
cochlearwar (dot) com.
Metabolic mess-up
Hello, my name is Daniel Foley and I have been implanted at age 13. It
does nothing but causes problems with me physically. Since I have been
implanted, I noticed that my metabolism slowed down and I gained weigh.
By the time I became 16 years old I weigh almost 300 pounds and I had
to lose weigh so I can hear, that is what my doctor told me. Then I got
very sick and ended up in a wheelchair and gained more weighs.
Then I finally stopped wearing it and I felt so peaceful and less
tress. Yes, I still am heavy and my BP and cholesterol are up to the
roof. I really wanted to take the inside part out so bad.
The strange thing is I was supposed to hear things with the implant,
but I never heard one thing and my parents still tried to make me wear
it until I became 18 and now I am almost 20. Now my parents are doing
better. They also told me that my personality without the implant on is
better than with it on. My friends said the same!! I even like myself
better as Deaf person than “hearing” person.
Thank you for your time to read this letter.
Daniel Foley
a student from MSSD (Model Secondary School for the Deaf)
Out from the bubble: enjoying life with an implant
Hello, my name is Betsy Hitzel and I’m 28 years old. I just got my
implant last October 2003, and I’m very happy with it.
The cause of my hearing loss is called Perrault’s Syndrome. I was deaf
in my right ear [and] was fast losing hearing in my left ear, which no
one knew why. My life has been a struggle with my hearing loss. I had
to go to speech class in grade school, because I had a problem
pronouncing words, which helped some, but there are still words I
cannot pronounce. I fell 2 grades [behind] because of my hearing loss,
and cheated my way through high school because I could not hear what
the teachers [were saying]. I’ve worn 3 different types of hearing aids
through my childhood, which would help for a couple months, then it
wouldn’t. I spent my whole life denying I had a hearing disability,
because I was ashamed. Because I never heard when people talked to me,
I was shy and didn’t talk to very many people. It was like I lived in
my own little bubble.
When I heard about the implant I was scared and worried, but the more I
thought about it, I got excited. Now I’m happy I did it. Sounds that
most people take for granted, such as birds chirping, wind blowing
outside, even hearing the engine of a car when started, things people
do not think about. So I’m glad I got the implant. I admit I don’t hear
every word people say, but I don’t say “Huh?” all the time now.
I’m hoping I can get the implant in my left ear. I feel whoever
invented the implant, I would like to shake his or hers hand and thank
them for giving me my life back.
Betsy Hitzel
A pain in the . . . tooth!
Hello, My name is Lola (Beaver) Phillips, Ben Beaver is my Great Uncle.
Anyway I come from a large deaf family and I have a deaf granddaughter.
And I have a cochlear implant my self. I have had mine for about five
years and I am against children having one until they are much, much
older. I want to tell you my story and see if you can pass it along for
me.
One day I was having a bad toothache and I went to the dentist and the
dentist says nothing wrong with my tooth as I had root canal where the
pain was and he asked me want it pulled out and I said “no!” so I asked
him if he thought it was coming from my cochlear implant as I notice
with certain sounds it would make it ache so I decided to go back to
the place that did my cochlear implant and I explained to the doctor
what I just told you and he was stunned and acted like it was weird but
decided to test me in the booth and use different pitches of sound and
found there was a certain sound that made it ache and corrected the
mapping on my hearing aid.
Please do not allow these little ones to have it done also it is hard
for me to get an MRI due to the cochlear implant so theses little ones
may not be able to tell something is wrong. I hope this will help.
Thank you,
Lola Phillips
“The doctors wouldn’t listen”:
an implantee’s nightmare
Hi. My name is Nan Young. [Editors’ note: All names in the following
account have been changed to protect the privacy of the contributor,
ince her case is currently being litigated.] I live in Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia, I am profoundly deaf, late-deaf, I lost my hearing
at age 44, I had an implant put in in January 2001 and I had it removed
in April 2002. I would love to be able to tell my story to you, so that
many more can see the problems I had with the implant and also the
trouble I had with the doctors not listening to me, and then leaving me
to fend for myself with not much help from them once the implant was
removed. I would like people to see the other side of the Implant
“Problems” but first I need to see if you get this, so that I can
continue to give my whole story. This I need to do for myself and for
all those thinking of getting the implant, so that one day I may feel
that I have done my best to show the other side of it.
Please, when you get this E-mail, E-mail me back so that I know you
have received it and then I can continue with the long story of my
journey with getting hearing from the implant and then going back to No
Hearing again.
Thank you for this site; it is much needed and I really appreciate it.
Nan Young
Melbourne, Victoria, Australia
The following account is the official complaint filed by Ms. Young. It
has been sparingly edited, but not abridged. For example, “Drs” has
been changed to “doctors,” and “Vic Deaf” has been spelled out once as
“Victorian Deaf Society.” “RVEEH” has been spelled out as Royal
Victorian Eye and Ear Hospital. (This hospital houses one of the
world’s leading cochlear-implant clinics.) Punctuation and
capitalization have also been regularized. We have responded to Ms.
Young’s request, and thanked her for sharing her story with
us.&#150;Editors
To Jan Jones, Complaints Department
Royal Victorian Eye and Ear Hospital
East Melbourne, Australia
This is my Complaint Summary as I remember it happening. I don’t recall
all the dates for all these visits and trips to hospital, but they
would be in my Medical Records at the hospital, and also the
Audiologist has her records of dates and times as well.
Firstly, I was given the operation date back in December of 2000. Kim
Arnold, the audiologist, rang me to tell me that the date of the
operation was 30/01/2001. I was over the moon. But on the 5th January,
I had a setback. I got quite a bad ear infection in the right ear, as
this was the ear that was going to be operated on. I rang Kim and she
made an appointment for me to see Dr. Patrick Smith; the appointment
for this was 10th January. Dr. Smith told me that the infection was
bad, but he would be able to clear it up before the operation, so not
to worry. The infection got worse so I went back. This time I saw Mr.
Robert Cash. My daughter Kat had to drive me as I was unable to drive.
Mr. Cash did some tests with me, and said he didn’t think it would be a
good idea to have the operation, he said I should wait and have it in
about a month’s time. Then a week or so later the infection cleared, so
I again saw Dr. Smith. He believed that it had cleared and there would
be no problem going ahead with the scheduled date of the operation on
the 30th January.
I went into the hospital on the 29th January [and] stayed overnight
before the operation, which was early on the 30th. I awoke from the
operation feeling reasonably good with my head bandaged, a little
dizzy, but that was all. Late in the afternoon the bandages were
removed. Soon after this, I felt like I had fluid in my head around the
implant area. I spoke to a young doctor (can’t remember his name), who
aid it was impossible to have fluid in that area, and said not to
worry, so I tried not to worry. Still, the next day I felt like the
fluid had got worse, and I had this noise also in my ear. I saw the
ame young doctor in the hallway of the hospital and told him, and he
aid not to worry as this would go [away] in time. I was allowed to go
home the next day, Friday 2nd February. That night, I felt very sick at
my parents’ place, and my head was hurting really badly. My father rang
the hospital and they told him to take me to the local G.P. to look at
it, which we did. He prescribed antibiotics and said that it was
inflamed and infected. This was on the 3rd February. It did start to
feel a little better for a day, then it got worse, so I went back to
ee one of the doctors on the 6th February. Mr. Cash was there, and he
aid that there was a stitch abscess and he would cut it out.
On the 13th February I was to be switched on! My daughter Kat was with
the audiologist, Kim Arnold, and myself. I was switched on, and it was
a great day for me, to be able to hear again! It was quite an
experience; the sounds were very strange and not what I had remembered,
but I was happy, as I could hear something. For the next couple of
weeks I used the implant a lot trying to understand the T.V. and people
talking, I had to go back to the Implant Clinic on a regular basis once
a week, at that time.
On my next visit to see Kim, I told her of the noises I was having and
that even when I took off the processor I was still having these noises
and that they were keeping me awake at night, and that the infection on
the incision line was still there. So she took me down to see a
doctor,, and he said that I should stay in hospital on more
antibiotics, which I did. On this stay I told the doctor of the fluid
feeling and the noises I was having, and he said not to worry, as this
was quite normal, some tinnitus after the operation. I said I didn’t
believe it was tinnitus, as I had had tinnitus all of my life, and this
was totally different, this noise was when I touched my ear or moved my
head from side to side, or tried to lie down at night. It kept me
awake. I had had hardly any sleep, and I believed it was getting worse.
Then Mr. Cash said not to worry about it too much, and he gave me a
cript for some tablets to help me sleep.
I was to still see the doctors and Kim on a regular basis, and at each
visit I told Kim and the doctors of the problems I was having, but
things never seemed to get anywhere, and I was not getting any answers.
I had another trip into the hospital. This time it was for insomnia. I
had not had any sleep for days. I saw Mr. Cash, Kim Arnold, and Dr.
Smith on the 2nd^ floor in Mr. Cash’s office. They all spoke with me,
and Kim and Dr. Smith believed I should stay in hospital again, to help
me get some sleep. I don’t know if Mr. Cash agreed. But he left the
room, and I was with Kim and Dr. Smith and they asked me to please stay
in the hospital, so I did. I was put into a private room so I could
have complete rest.
Mr. Cash came into see me the next day and said to me that he was very,
very sorry for the trouble I have been having, and that getting some
leep would help me. I stayed for a couple of days with little sleep,
till! Then I had that same young doctor whom I had spoken to about the
noises and fluid. He told me that I could go home! I said to him, “Mr.
Cash told me to stay,” he said “No! I said you can go!” and then he
left the room. The male nurse, Steve, came in and I just cried and
cried, I was so upset at what was going on. Steve the nurse went and
got his supervising nurse, and she said, “Don’t worry,” as Mr. Cash had
aid not to leave the hospital until he had seen me.
Mr. Cash came and saw me again, and again he said he was so sorry while
patting me on the leg. I was furious and said, “What can I do?” Mr.
Cash said he would just like to give me a big hug to help me, but he
didn’t. It was this day that I asked Mr. Cash to just please take the
implant out! I didn’t want it in anymore; it was causing me too much
trouble.
My next visit to Kim was quite strange. I felt like I was a burden. Kim
asked me if I would like to see the social worker, Bette Jamison. I
agreed to give it a try. So I saw Bette. She was there to help me cope
and to try and get some answers from the doctors as to what they were
going to do next.
At my next visit, Kim told me that I was not the only person having
problems with the implant. There were others! When I saw Mr. Cash next,
I asked him about the other people with problems, and I told him Kim
had told me of these others with problems like me, and his reply was
that Kim didn’t know what she was talking about and that what she said
was piffle!
By this time, I was getting very depressed and frustrated with all that
was going on. The doctors were not listening to me, and the ear
infections were getting more frequent and a lot worse and for longer
periods. I kept asking the doctors and Kim, “Could you please take it
out?!” I said this on numerous occasions, but with no answer.
My next few visits to Mr. Cash were very interesting. He was saying
that my neck was causing my problems with my ear, then said my back was
causing the problem. I said to Mr. Cash [that] I was fed up with coming
5 hours to hear these excuses, and be in with him for about 10 to15
minutes.
Things got so bad that the social worker, Bette Jamison, made an
appointment for me with Mr. Cash, Kim myself, and [herself]. This
appointment was on the 24th May 2001. At this appointment, I was handed
a letter, stating how concerned they were for me. This letter also
[had] a list of Management Options that they, the Implant Clinic, would
give me to help. There [were] a number of options for me if I would
prefer not to undergo further surgery, also a list of options if I was
to consider further surgery. (This letter I have already sent to you.)
I got so sick of hearing these things that I took Annike Reed, a lady
from Victorian Deaf Society, with me to the next appointment. This
appointment was with Dr. Smith, Ms. Reed, Kim Arnold (audiologist), and
myself. At this meeting, Dr. Smith told Annike and myself that the
electrodes were too far down the neck, and he looked at the CT scan
while saying this. He then said that this would be causing the noise in
my ear. He said they would have to operate to fix this problem. Annike
asked “When?” And both Dr. Smith and Kim said, “As soon as possible.
This is urgent.” I asked the doctor to also look in my ear, as I had
had some fluid and discharging from it. He said “YES!”&#151;that there
was fluid and infection in the ear, and gave me a script [perscription]
for some drops to clear it up. He also said “As soon as this clears,
about two to three weeks,” they would operate. I told him I was going
on holidays for two weeks. And he said, “Okay, when you come back from
holidays the ear should have cleared up,” and they will be able to move
the electrodes up higher in my head. The doctor also said to contact
him when I got back, I said, “Okay, that would be great!” I was quite
happy, thinking that after my holiday, things may get back to normal
and I could get on with my life again. This was in August 2001.
I came back from my holiday on the 4th September and made an
appointment to see Dr. Smith. I went into see him and was told he was
ick&#151;even though I had seen him walking around! So I was told I
would have to see Mr. Cash. I said “Okay,” and went into see Mr. Cash,
and he said, “What are you doing here?” I was stunned. I told him, and
he said he knew nothing of this. And I would have to wait until he had
poken to Dr. Smith. I was furious and told him that he said that I
hould try this medication, Tegretol, and contact him back in about 4-6
weeks. I walked out of there so upset, that again nothing had been
done.
I E-mailed Mr. Cash after the time he had told me to stay on the
tablets, but it took a long time for him to contact me back. When he
did reply to me, he said he thought it would be a good idea for me to
ee a psychiatrist, which was actually on the letter that was [given to
me] back in May 2001, and this was now September. This was the first
time that anything thing from the letter had been mentioned. Also, I
forgot to mention that Bette was trying to get me accommodation
omewhere for long-term stay to help with the sleep and for them to
check the implant and infections. That was [also] back in May, and it
was now September.
Every time I saw the doctors there was always an excuse. That something
else was wrong, never the implant! And I still asked [them] to please
remove the implant or try and fix it, and also to move the electrodes
up like Dr. Smith said he was going to do. Mr. Cash’s response to this
was, “It’s piffle; the electrodes are not too far down the neck.” And I
never saw Dr. Smith again after that; it has always been Mr. Cash.
My next visit to Mr. Cash was with my brother, Mark Riley. When we got
there to see Mr. Cash, he had Dr. Smith, Kim Arnold, and another man, a
psychiatrist (I don’t remember his name), and myself. Dr. Smith did all
the talking, and so did my brother. It started with ear infections,
again, and that there had been a lot of fluid coming from the ear, and
again this was put aside and they, the doctors spoke of what they
wanted! I said that I wanted the implant out, and Dr. Smith said that
it would be too expensive to do that. My brother then asked Dr. Smith,
was money the problem here? And Dr. Smith said “No, of course not!”
Then my brother said, “How about [if] Nan sees Dr. Sol DiLeone”
(psychologist) “to see if he could help before the final decision was
made?” They all agreed&#151;except for me! I believed I had waited long
enough, but the majority ruled, I guess, and so I left again with no
answers to any questions or an answer on getting it fixed or removed.
But I agreed to try this for approximately 6 weeks.
I went to see Dr. Sol DiLeone. He seemed rather good; he was the first
person to actually listen to me about my ear and what was going on with
it and the noises and the ear infections. I saw Sol a number of times,
but he didn’t seem to be doing anything much for me in the ear
department. The ear infections were getting worse, and the fluid was
really bad and it had a terrible smell as well. My G.P., Dr. Forrester,
whom I had seen on several occasions when I had ear infections, had
aid that the ear was so infected it had totally closed up and he was
unable to even put drops into it.
My next visit was to see a psychiatrist and also Mr. Cash. I had my
parents with me this time&#151;Kevin and Maggie Riley. Mr. Cash asked
me to see the psychiatrist, so I did by myself and then my parents came
in. He asked me lots of questions, and also my parents as well. Then we
had to wait for Mr. Cash to come back to see him; I had gone outside
with my mother when Mr. Cash arrived. My father asked him what was
going on. Mr. Cash replied to my father that “if she wants the
electrodes moved, then we will do that, but we don’t think it will make
any difference.” Mr. Cash also said to my father, “We are not worried
about what she says now; we are worried about what Nan will say in 12
months’ time.” My mother and I came back and saw Mr. Cash, and he
didn’t say much more and then he had to go again, with no answers. I
left again feeling very frustrated! Nothing was being done, again, and
till there were infections in my ear that they didn’t believe.
[On] my next visit to Mr. Cash, I said I wanted the implant taken out.
Again, his response was, even if the implant was taken out, at this
tage he didn’t believe that it would get rid of my problems. He
believed that it was too late&#151;that the problems I was having would
till be there even if it was taken out, as it had been in too long! So
I said “WHAT!?! Does this mean you have stuffed my head up?!?” And
there was no reply. Kim walked out, and I just cried and cried, and
then Mr. Cash said he had to go, but please make another appointment
time.
During all this time I had been seeing [the] lady from Vic Deaf, Annike
Reed. I spoke with her and she was appalled at what was going on and
the treatment I was getting.
My next appointment with Mr. Cash was 17th January 2002. At this
meeting was my daughter Kat (she is 18), Kim, and myself. I told Mr.
Cash I had the start of another ear infection. So he asked me to go and
get on the bed so he could see it. While I was in with Mr. Cash, Kim
was in the other room asking Kat a lot of questions&#151;things like
“What would you feel like if your mother had the implant removed?” and
“Why had your mother been to see so many other doctors about the ear
infections?” I felt like this was very inappropriate to ask my
daughter, as it was my decision and no one else’s. Mr. Cash looked in
my ear and he said he believed it was my jaw that was causing all the
problems, and didn’t believe me about the infections. Kat said she was
disgusted [at] the way I was being treated. She said they treated me as
if I was a child and spoke down to me. This time, Mr. Cash asked me to
ee a physiologist to get my jaw checked out. I never did this, as I
was furious that he would think that my jaw was causing my ear
infections.
After that appointment I went and saw Marina Petrakis, [of the]
Complaints Department at the Royal Victorian Eye and Ear Hospital.
Annike Reed from Vic Deaf had made this appointment for me.
My next visit to see Mr. Cash was on the 31st January 2002. At this
meeting [were] Mr. Cash, Marina Petrakis, Annike Reed, Kat Young, and
myself, I started by saying to Mr. Cash that an infection had started
again in my ear. He got off his seat rather quickly and said, “Good,
let me see!” He looked in it and said “YES!”&#151;that there was an
infection in the ear. He then went on to say that there was a small
hole in the ear and that an electrode was trying to push through. I was
amazed and sort of happy as well that he had actually seen the
infection and that he had also seen something else as well. He said he
thought I had better stay in hospital so they could treat my ear with
trong antibiotics on an IV drip, and also check the hole as well. We
all left the appointment and I said to both Marina and Annike that I
felt relief, but I was unsure as to why he had just said it this time!
Was it because Marina and Annike had been there? They said “No,” that
he wouldn’t have said it if it wasn’t there! I was very unsure, as he
had never said anything previously before; it was as if I didn’t
believe him myself this time.
I was to go home with my daughter and then head back to the hospital
later that night. I went back to the hospital around about 10.00 p.m. I
had to go to Casualty. I waited there for ages, then I saw a nurse. She
took my details, and then I waited to see the doctor to put me into the
hospital. This was about 11.30 p.m. I saw a doctor and he asked all the
questions and then admitted me. He said, “I need to take a swab of your
ear for the infection,” which he did. He then said he could not see any
hole in my ear, like Mr. Cash had said. I got up to the room at just
after midnight, and they put the IV drip in after 12.30 a.m. The next
morning, the 1st [of] February, I had to go and have a CT scan. I did
this and later that night the doctor came in and told me about the
can. He said that the scan showed a lot of fluid all around the
implant area. I was totally stunned! Fluid? He said yes, but he could
ee no hole that Mr. Cash was talking about.
Mr. Cash came into see me and said, “We can treat this and fix the
problem.” I was over the moon. Then, later on the next day, at about
2.00 p.m., I was asked to go down to see Mr. Cash on the 2nd floor.
Down there, I waited for ages, but eventually I saw him, and he said he
would like Dr. Smith to see me as well as a Mr. Gibson, whom I had
never seen before. I was down there for nearly 3 hours with them
checking my ear, and then the CT scan, and then more checking my ear.
Dr. Smith came and spoke to me about it all. This was the first time I
had seen him for ages. I spoke about the fluid, and he then said to me,
“Don’t jump in too early.” I didn’t understand what he meant. Then all
3 doctors had me up on the bed, checking my ear, and then they said
they had finished. I waited again for ages, and Mr. Gibson came up to
me and said, “There is NOTHING wrong in your ear other than an
infection.” I was devastated. WHAT?!? Mr. Cash had told me there was a
hole and the electrode was pushing through, and the doctor told me that
the implant area was full of FLUID! Now I was told there was nothing?
I went back up to my room and I was too furious, I think, to even cry.
The nurse came and said that “Mr. Cash would like to see you in his
rooms,” so she took me down. I actually saw Mr. Cash in the hallway.
Before his room, he spoke to me in the waiting area, me sitting and him
tanding at the desk there, people passing through all the time he was
talking to me, then he asked me to come into the room so he could see
my ear. I did, he said he didn’t see anything in there this time. I
aid “Could you please tell me how I can have a hole and an electrode
pushing through, and my head full of fluid and now, a day later, I have
nothing?!?” He said he was sorry; he must have made an error when
looking in it. I said “Oh, yeah? Well, I want the implant removed!”
When I said this we were just outside his room, in the hallway, again.
He then told me that having the implant removed was not a consideration
at all!
I just looked at him and said, “Get stuffed!” and walked off.
I am not pleased with myself for saying that, but I was just so furious
that this had all happened. Then I went back to my room. They removed
the drip for me. I then asked the nurse if I could see Marina Petrakis
again, which I did. I received my Ciproxin tablets from the nurse and
was allowed to go home.
I forgot to mention I was approached by one of the nurses on the ward.
She said to me I was silly for going to the Complaints Department to
ee Marina Petrakis. She believed this would not be in my favor at all.
And then another nurse came and spoke to me and he said I should go and
get a second opinion. He believed that I was getting a raw deal from
the doctors and staff.
I am still waiting for something to happen. It has been nearly 14
months and I still have the noises, ear infections, and the throbbing
in my head. And still no answers and nothing done. However, I do have
another appointment with Mr. Cash on the 12^tth March at 12.30 p.m.,
hoping that they will agree to remove the implant. If not, I am going
to have to find someone who will.
On the 1st March I went and saw my local G.P., and he said to me to ask
if the implant was pressing on or against the internal carotid artery,
as this could be causing the throbbing in my head.
I am hoping that you may be able to help me get something done on
getting the problems fixed or on getting the implant removed.
Yours sincerely,
Very happy with the results
Editor,
I am writing to share my real-life experience with C.I. I want to share
the balanced story here so not all is bad.
I was born profoundly deaf and was able to use hearing aids during my
growing years. When I was around 35 years old, my residential hearing
has bottomed out which mean that no hearing aid could help me. It is my
trong belief that no little children should get c.i. because it is not
really better than hearing aids. There are excellent digital hearing
aids that are programmed to fit each child's hearing needs. By all
means, use them.
I really hate to see little kids getting implants but it is their
parent’s decision. I often wonder about the longevity of implants.
I never considered C.I. because it did not have good beginning with
people. About two years ago, (I am in 50’s), my old school mate got in
touch with me, and began to share about her c.i. She is very happy with
it. After many questions, soul searching, exploring my personal need,
etc., I decided that I do miss hearing and went to see the ENT doctor
about it. I was found to be a good candidate to get C.I. After the
urgery, and several adjustments, it was slow in getting better with
ounds. I am very happy with the results. It does not provide the
perfect hearing. When I take it off at bed time, I become totally deaf.
It is just like hearing aids for me. I notice the nice benefits from
using c.i. I can hear the birds chirping, cars going by, dogs barking,
people talking with me and I understand them much better. There are
many little sounds in this noisy world. I am still deaf and still use
ign language. I use interpreter for meetings. C.I. enriches my life
much more than before. It is nice change for me. It feels so good to
hear my adult kids calling me, “Mom!”
There are always some risks with any surgery, and I understand that it
may not work for some people. I take a risk whenever I need a surgery,
and pray for the good outcome. When you go to the hospital, you have to
ign the papers saying that there is no guarantee, unfortunately. Some
people are pretty leery about that. I believe that life is full of
chances, and it is really personal choice to take them or not, like
that TV show, “Extreme Makeover,” for people to have so many surgeries
to improve their personal appearance. C.I. is much smaller surgery in
comparsion to those surgeries.
Dianne K.
Happy C.I. User
I don’t think I would have made it this far
without an implant
Hello, my name is Paige Adams.  I'm sixteen years old and here is my
tory.
I was born to proud parents in May of 1988 and I was a healthy baby
with no hearing problems
At one year old, I was diagnosed with bacterial meningitis. Luckily, I
urvived after receiving a spinal tap, but I remained in a coma for
five days until I regained consciousness. Doctors feared that there
would be some brain damage and there were no signs of any kind of brain
damage.
My hearing loss began at this point and ended when I was two and a half
years old. At the age of two, my mother soon realized that I was not
peaking just like others my age, but I was developing other mechanical
kills. I was put in late-development classes, but my mother was
convinced that I was deaf. The doctors would not listen to her and kept
telling her that I was not deaf. Until one day, the teacher noticed the
ame thing my mother was talking about and that teacher told my mother
to take me to the audiologist. The audiologist confirmed that I was
profoundly deaf in both ears.
Immediately after this confirmation, my parents placed me in a program
in the city that specialized in the education of deaf and
hard-of-hearing children. My mother began taking sign-language classes
and carry around books of signs to be able to communicate with me. My
progress was incredible that my parents could not believe it.
Hearing aids were provided and I disliked the hearing aids. So my
parents were looking for another efficient way for me to become
independent and have many opportunities to learn or communicate.
At the age of five, the University of Virginia offered a possible
operation for a cochlear implant. After doing research and listening to
deaf pro-implant and deaf community advocates, my parents decided it
was for the best for me to receive a cochlear implant. After a six-hour
urgery, I had a magnet installed inside my skull on my right side
above my ear. Within a month, I was wearing my cochlear implant to
chool and I could hear things that I had never heard before such as
the toliet, people walking on carpet and wooden floors, music, etc.
Even if it was overwhelming at first, I was able to maintain my hearing
and use it as an advantage for my education and communication skills.
Today, I still wear the same old cochlear implant and I love it!!!!
Even today, I hear something new and it is a learing experience. Also,
I enjoy being able to communicate with hearing friends without having
an interpreter beside me. I do use an interpreter in the classroom at
chool to help me to receive the education I need. I am currently a
junior in high school and I am taking Calculus, Advanced Biology,
History and English courses that happen to be AP (advanced placement)
courses in college. I have taken Spanish, Latin, Advanced Chemistry,
Algebra (one and two), Geometry, and Precalculus. If I didn’t receive
my cochlear implant, I do not think I would have made this far.
My goals are to graduate high school with an advanced diploma and to go
to college and receive a Master’s Degree for a major in science.
Sincerely yours,
Paige Adams
__________________________________________________________________
[cochlearwar.gif]
Introduction | History | Forum | Newsflash
For Parents Only | Myths & Facts | Deaf can do
All original material used in CochlearWar.com is the property of MSM
Productions, Ltd. and is protected by copyright. No material can be
excerpted, paraphrased, or published in any form (whether in print of
electronically) without the express written permission of the owner.
©2003-2016, MSM Productions, Ltd.
[msmhome.gif]
