[cochlearwarmasthead.gif]

MYTHS AND FACTS
A NOTE ON TERMINOLOGY
The term "Deaf" (with an uppercase "D") is used here to emphasize a
cultural affiliation: deaf people in the United States and Canada who
use American Sign Language as their everyday means of communication,
who identify as culturally-Deaf, and who consider themselves members of
the Deaf community. (Members of Deaf communities in other countries use
their own native sign languages, but for the sake of simplicity, only
ASL is mentioned here.) Many, although not all, have attended schools
for the deaf; a number have also attended the "Big Three": NTID at RIT,
Gallaudet, and CSUN. We use the broad, inclusive term "deaf" (lowercase
"d") to refer to any person who is medically/audiologically deaf,
irrespective of communication mode, cultural affiliation, or identity.
We also use the term "Hearing" (uppercase "H") to emphasize the
cultural aspect of the hearing community.
We are using the pronouns "we" and "us" to refer to the MSM
Productions, Ltd./DEAF.com staff and, in a broader sense, members of
the Deaf community&#150;which includes ASL-Deaf people and hearing
people who share our concerns and support and encourage our work. The
Deaf community is an intermodal alliance&#150;that is, it includes
deaf, hard-of-hearing, and hearing people. This is the community we
erve.
Click on any question to read the answer.
What is your opinion of cochlear implants? Many doctors are calling it
a "revolutionary technology" that is transforming what had been an
isolated group of people, namely the deaf. How do you see the
development in implants?
Do you feel that the mass media has given the CI controversy fair and
balanced coverage? Or has it been biased? If so, how?
Can you give me an example of media bias?
What is the impact on Deaf culture of the growing number of people who
are using these devices?
Do Deaf people feel insulted by the fact that so many hearing parents
are willing to risk putting their children through surgery in order to
eliminate deafness?
What bothers you most about implants?
What are some of your concerns about children with CIs?
On what basis do you say that they have no real interest in the
well-being of deaf children?
What else bothers you?
Doesn&#146;t the CI cure deafness? Doesn&#146;t it make a deaf person
hear? Doesn&#146;t it enhance the quality of life for deaf children?
Isn&#146;t it important for deaf people to acquire good speech and
listening skills?
Aren&#146;t deaf people who have good speech more successful than those
who rely on signing alone?
How much person-to person contact have you had with deaf people with
implants?
Do you consider people with CIs part of the Deaf Community?
Aren&#146;t most people with CIs happy about their implants?
Do you have questions about the effectiveness and safety of implants?
Well, they can give implantees antibiotics, right?
If the CI is here to stay, isn&#146;t it a waste of time and energy to
try and fight it?
Those who are in favor of cochlear implants say that implants can make
deaf children and adults hear. But Deaf advocates say that even with an
implant, a deaf person is still deaf. What does that mean?
Even so, doesn&#146;t the CI have the power to bring an isolated,
marginalized group of people into the mainstream of society?
Aren&#146;t implants a good thing for society?
Why are some deaf people so bitterly opposed to implants?
Why do you object to giving implants to deaf children?
Isn&#146;t some hearing better than nothing? Isn&#146;t artificial
hearing better than no hearing at all?
Shouldn&#146;t all deaf children be able to enjoy the world of sound?
Aren&#146;t a number of born-deaf or early-deafened children getting
remarkable, even miraculous, results from their implants?
Won&#146;t the implant prevent illiteracy in deaf children?
If the Deaf community is losing the war against childhood CIs, what are
ome of the reasons?
Are CIs improving public attitudes towards deaf people?
What&#146;s the real motivation of those who oppose childhood implants?
Do Deaf people oppose CIs because they need to recruit deaf children to
keep the signing community viable?
What&#146;s been happening with the CI controversy on DeafNotes?
Who are these implant evangelists, anyway?
Illicit promotion? How?
But aren&#146;t the implant corporations interested in reaching out to
your largely deaf readership?
But don&#146;t kids with implants make miraculous progress?
If deaf children can benefit from a CI, why deny them the opportunity?
Why consign them to a childhood of silence?
Aren&#146;t parents who decide to give their deaf kids implants giving
them more communication choices, instead of limiting them to signing
alone?
Are implants a form of child abuse? That&#146;s what Deaf Culturalists
claim. What&#146;s your view?
So what do these Deaf advocates really want?
If education for the deaf was primarily oral was so many years, and
igning was forbidden, how did ASL survive?
Do students in oral schools still practice signing? How do they pick it
up? What about kids with CIs?
How is ASL going to survive the CI onslaught?
Do kids with cochlear implants identify as deaf or hearing?
Will the Deaf community survive the cochlear implant? Won&#146;t
implants ultimately render it obsolete?
Will the implant destroy Deaf culture?
What&#146;s so special about Deaf Culture? Why should it be studied by
hearing high-school and college students? Why should people with CIs
care about it?
Deafness is a disability. Aren&#146;t opponents of CIs denying their
disability?
EDITORS&#146; NOTE
FULL TEXT
Many of us are extremely skeptical about the claims we&#146;ve been
reading in the media and cochlear-implant (CI) promotional literature.
We sometimes suspect that the media plays up the advantages of the CI
while dismissing the disadvantages. We have no quarrel with deaf
teenagers or adults who choose to receive implants. We have profound
reservations about the current trend of implanting deaf infants and
children.
One thing that disturbs us when reading media coverage of CIs the
taggering quantity of ignorance displayed by some of those who are
reporting and commenting on it. Even in prestigious newspapers and
periodicals, we&#146;ve found a lot of slanted language utilized by
journalists that reveals prejudice: e.g., describing the CI as "a cure
for deafness" and the sensory experience of the unimplanted child as "a
world of total silence."
In 1997, a leader of the National Association of the Deaf patiently
endured a two-hour interview for a TV-news special on CIs, giving
articulate responses to each question as she was videotaped. She was
asked boorishly ignorant questions like "How can you deny hope to deaf
children?" The program, as broadcast, allotted her perhaps 30 seconds
of commentary. What she had to say ended up mainly on the cutting-room
floor.
We&#146;ve been contacted by a few reporters and asked some good, tough
questions. By "tough," we mean that they&#146;re not the sort of
questions that lend themselves to quick answers. They can&#146;t be
answered breezily in the space of a sound bite. Reams of paper have
been chewed up and tankloads of ink spilled on this topic
already&#150;and we&#146;ve scarcely begun. We appreciated the
reporters&#146; approach, and their open-mindedness, their willingness
to ask us how we felt about this issue. However, in most cases, the
responses we gave these reporters weren&#146;t published. In the case
of People Weekly, an editor (not the reporter who contacted us) made
the decision to publish a quote from a Deaf celebrity instead of
anything from us. The DEAF LIFE staff didn&#146;t qualify as
celebrities. No quotes from us were used in the USA Today writeup as it
was published. That&#146;s how the media business goes: you give them
lots of detailed responses, but you&#146;re lucky if you get a couple
of sentences in the published or broadcast version.
We wouldn&#146;t go so far as to say that the CI lobby controls the
media. (We sometimes suspect that they do because they have money to
burn. The Deaf community doesn&#146;t.) But doctors, CI surgeons,
clinicians, audiologists, and other members of the medical lobby
command a lot of respect in our culture just because they&#146;re
members of the medical profession. The public listens to them. They
have high visibility. They have prestige. When you have quickie news
coverage of this issue, you often see the doctor making some typically
authoritative comment like "We get much better results with implants
when the children are young. The earlier it&#146;s done, the better the
outcome." Cut to a member of the grassroots-Deaf community (usually one
without medical credentials) making a comment like "We Deaf people are
not broken, and we don&#146;t want to be fixed." Which one has more
media visibility?
The media loves parents of kids with implants. They certainly get a
izable chunk of the spotlight. It&#146;s hard to resist the sight of
cute little kids, especially those whose parents insist that
they&#146;ve given them CIs because they love them and want the best
for them. And then the videocams focus on little Kimmy or Jimmy
learning to talk: "Mama! Dada!" The public just eats it up. And where
are the signing-Deaf children of signing parents? They&#146;re not in
the spotlight.
Another thing: in articles about newly-implanted deaf children, you
always read what the adults (the doctors, audiologists, and parents)
have to say about the child&#146;s progress, but you rarely read what
the deaf child says, how she feels, what she thinks. The adults are
making the decisions, articulating their reasons, justifying their
actions&#150;and the deaf child remains silent, inarticulate. But when
Deaf adults (and the vast majority are deaf children of hearing
parents) speak out against the CI, they are portrayed as dangerous
enemies of progress, as extremists, fanatics, and militants. Their
concerns are frequently downplayed or dismissed. An anti-implant
protest rally in Canada (1995) made it into Chuck Shepard&#146;s "News
of the Weird," but not the front pages.
There&#146;s an article by Arthur Allen posted on the Salon.com site in
Spring 2000, titled "Sound and Fury" and subtitled "Thousands of deaf
kids can hear, and speak, thanks to a stunningly effective ear implant.
So why is the deaf community in an uproar?" To quote one of the
tatements: "Many leaders of the National Association of the Deaf have
gotten implants, and the group is redrafting a position paper to make
it more friendly to cochlear implants." We were aware that NAD was
redrafting its old CI position paper, but who were these NAD leaders
who had received implants? Nancy J. Bloch, NAD Executive Director, told
us, "I don&#146;t know where Arthur [Allen] got the &#145;many
leaders&#146; and &#145;more friendly to cochlear implants&#146; part,
committee is in the process of developing a new position statement for
consideration by and approval of the NAD Board of Directors. It is
expected that the new position document will be less adversarial than
the original, take into consideration the rights of parents to make
balanced and informed choices on behalf of their children, and the need
for emphasis on visual language development, among other things."
It&#146;s safe to say that no NAD leaders have received implants.
And "stunningly effective?" Really?
It has created an uproar in the Deaf community, to be sure, and a lot
of bitter feelings. There has been some public outcry. A number of
implanted kids have entered the schools for the deaf. How well has it
been working out for them? Are they making good progress? Deaf children
have been known to haze implanted kids mercilessly. Parents of
implanted kids have been publicly confronted and excoriated by Deaf
people. There has been name-calling, shouting, and a lot of online
flaming. The CI has ideologically split the Deaf community, and has
haken up families. This was evidenced in the Aronson documentary Sound
and Fury. The Artinian family, which has deaf and hearing siblings
exposed to Deaf Culture, and deaf children born to the deaf and hearing
iblings, was painfully divided on the issue.
Insulted, perhaps, but perhaps a more accurate response is "disturbed."
We&#146;re gravely concerned about the effect that the implants will
have on these children&#146;s educational careers, their social lives,
their communicative skills, their emotional health, their futures, and
their overall well-being. We feel that there&#146;s some degree of
deception going on, that the parents are not getting the full story
before making the commitment.
Deaf people, quite understandably, feel threatened by the implant in a
way that they don&#146;t feel threatened by other technological
advances such as hearing aids, signaling devices, and the Internet.
Hearing aids, let it be remembered, are completely removable. An
implant is a permanent installation. The new implants are used with
babies, and the community "feels that they&#146;re being robbed of
their most precious resource&#150;deaf children." (We&#146;re
paraphrasing a statement we recently read.) The implant takes away more
than it gives.
Deaf people in this country have been fighting to gain equal respect as
citizens, and to have their language, ASL, recognized and respected,
and to give deaf children a wider choice of options than the
traditional pure-oral regimen imposed by virtually all schools for the
deaf and deaf-ed programs&#150;and just as soon as we get ASL out of
the closet, get some recognition and respect for it in the academic
community and general society, along comes the implant and a new boom
in the most rigorous kind of oral/aural approach. Some of us don&#146;t
ee this as technological progress, but the worst sort of backlash.
It&#146;s not progress as much as a new twist on retrogression.
Several factors.
We are gravely concerned about implants becoming a "trend." Remember
when tonsillectomies were the medical trend? If your child got sick and
had inflamed tonsils, s/he was trundled off to the hospital for a
tonsillectomy. Finally, when medical researchers realized that tonsils
might play a hitherto unrecognized role in keeping the immune system
healthy, and parents realized that tonsils were better off left alone,
the trend died out.
One mother of two grown deaf children has compared cochlear implants to
ilicone breast implants, which the FDA assured us were quite safe, and
were part of a cosmetic trend&#150;until word got out that there were
might be some very bad consequences.
Some of us see implants as the latest medical fad for "curing"
deafness. There is already a backlash of youthful implantees who are,
for various reasons, unhappy with their implants and have stopped using
them. A few have even had them surgically removed. It&#146;s too soon
to see whether they represent the vanguard of a growing faction of
dissidents or a disgruntled minority.
We are concerned about the well-being of deaf children, and their
families, too. We&#146;re worried about the grueling oral-aural
rehabilitation they typically have to undergo, the way that clinicians
and doctors frequently tell the parents not to use any signing
whatsoever with their children, the banishment of sign language and
Deaf mentors from their lives, and the possible negative effects of the
mainstreaming that will be the norm for a majority of these kids.
We&#146;re worried that at least some of them will be left without any
effective language. Their parents won&#146;t learn to sign, they
won&#146;t get any real exposure to it in public schools, and
they&#146;ll be deprived of this tremendous source of enrichment.
The implant industry has a ready sucker market in parents of
newly-diagnosed deaf babies. They&#146;re in a state of shock. They may
be grieving. They desperately want their children to be "normal," to
participate fully and to enjoy all the advantages of life in the "real"
world. Choose a world of sound, the propaganda urges them, if you
really care about them. And they feature stock photographs of
attractive, happy children (undoubtedly portrayed by hearing models) in
their ads. Who could resist such a come-on?
There&#146;s a growing trend to send newborns straight to the implant
clinic after the hearing-screening tests confirm that they&#146;re
deaf. We imagine that some parents are persuaded (or pressured) to make
this decision quickly, "for the good of the child." They won&#146;t
have to worry about learning to sign or choosing a school for the deaf.
Wham! The kid&#146;s "fixed."
We&#146;re worried about the way the cochlear-implant corporations have
been promoting implants as a providing a magic key to a deaf
child&#146;s success in the mainstream, and the misleading advertising
urrounding the promotional campaigns, which are, naturally, aimed at
the parents&#150;parents who are coping with the shock and grief of
their children&#146;s deafness and who desperately want their deaf kids
to be "normal." These campaigns use highly selective data to present an
incomplete, even deceptive, picture to parents. They tout the "higher
quality of life" supposedly enjoyed by young implantees, as compared
with unimplanted deaf children. The implant industry, as far as we can
tell, has no real interest in the total well-being of these children,
nor their struggles in the mainstream, nor their futures. They just
want to market their product globally. They want their profit margin.
They&#146;ve admitted as such themselves. In a Washington Post article,
a top executive of the leading CI corporation said that his company
wasn&#146;t "in business to serve the Deaf Culture" (i.e., deaf
people), but to serve hearing parents. No CI surgeons or
representatives from the implant industry have, to our knowledge, ever
bothered to visit schools for the deaf or mainstream programs to see
just how well the consumers of their prostheses are doing in their
everyday lives. The implant industry has never sponsored any Deaf
Culture or ASL-affirmative events. They do send representatives to Deaf
expos to staff information booths, disseminating free CI promotional
materials. But we never read about grants to schools for the deaf or
any community initiative that isn&#146;t strictly self-serving.
We&#146;re worried about the way implants are marketed to parents of
newly-diagnosed deaf babies. Now, ostensibly, statewide screening
programs are supposed to present the options to parents in a fair,
unbiased way. But if the Cochlear Corporation has a better, more
aggressive marketing campaign than, say, the National Association of
the Deaf, are they scoring more hits with the parents?
Question: Do parents of deaf babies really understand the options
before they commit to an implant?
Question: Are implants really a more cost-effective measure in the long
run than a sign-based education at a school for the deaf?
Question: Do parents whose children get implants have higher
expectations for them than parents who don&#146;t?
Question: What long-term effects do the implants have on a deaf child,
ocially and academically?
We&#146;re concerned about the way the popular media (women&#146;s
magazines, for example) carry glowing, simplistic stories about the
"miracle" of the implant ("the gift of sound!"), without discussing the
children whose experience with implants has been less than
"miraculous." When they tout a certain child making exemplary progress
with the implants, are they including full details of the child&#146;s
communication capabilities before he got the implant? In some cases,
they omit this data. Some of this success is undoubtedly due to active
parental involvement. If deaf kids are from achievement-oriented
families that place a lot of importance on reading and writing, they
automatically have an advantage over those who don&#146;t. A good
measure of a child&#146;s success in school can be attributed to the
early acquisition of literacy&#150;getting exposure and plenty of
extracurricular practice in reading and writing. We would like to know
what effect implants have on these vital skills.
Many of us in the Deaf community are likewise concerned about these
things. The high cost of the implant, the fact that there is still no
reliable way of predicting how much the implant will benefit a child or
what its long-term effect on her life may be, the attitude of some
doctors and implant-clinic staffers who prohibit any use of signing in
the rehabilitative regimen, parents who refuse to allow their child to
get any exposure to ASL, the additional burden being placed on deaf
children who are forcibly mainstreamed&#150;all of these things concern
us.
And, yes, we have been speaking out about it, but since we lack the
political clout of the CI lobby, our response has been scattershot.
There is no single unified anti-childhood-implant organization.
We are concerned about the way the implant is being promoted as a "cure
for deafness." Calling the implant a "cure" is a fallacy. The implant
does not cure deafness. From what we understand (and we have discussed
this at length with people who have chosen implants for themselves), it
is plain wrong to describe an implant as a "miracle" or "cure." In most
cases, profound sensorineural deafness is not a "curable" condition.
It&#146;s permanent. Unless there&#146;s a middle-ear or
bone-conductivity problem that can be reversed or remedied surgically,
a deaf person will always be deaf. A CI doesn&#146;t magically or
bionically undo this. There seems to be widespread misunderstanding
about just what an implant can do and what it cannot do.
What it does is to enable the user to perceive sounds and distinguish
ome degree of sound discrimination&#150;and there is evidently a wide
pectrum of results from user to user, ranging from negligible to the
uperb. The user has to undergo intensive rehabilitation to learn to
perceive these sounds as speech, music, danger sounds, noises, etc. It
is not a miracle fix. It doesn&#146;t magically restore lost hearing;
it gives the user the functional capacity of some hearing. It
doesn&#146;t make a deaf person hearing, but more like hard-of-hearing.
While some implantees are able to carry on regular voice conversations
on the telephone, others cannot. The outcome is quite unpredictable.
Just what is the quality of sound the implantees perceive? One
audiologist was quoted in a Sacramento Bee article (2001) as saying
that with an implant, 22 electrodes were "doing the work of 30,000 hair
cells." The 22 or 24 electrodes in an implant can&#146;t possibly
replace the thousands of microscopic hair cells in the cochlea that
give richness and depth to sounds as they are perceived in normal
hearing. One cochlear-implant usr likens the sounds he heard in his
implant as "environmental noise." Perceiving "environmental noise" is
not equivalent to hearing the full spectrum of sounds.
Yes, these skills are important, but we don&#146;t believe that speech
and speechreading should be our #1 educational priorities.
Many people automatically equate "good speech" with intellectual
prowess. By this logic, to speak well is to think well. And this is
imply not true. There are a number of hearing people who can talk
well, but they certainly aren&#146;t intelligent!
We don&#146;t believe that the be-all and end-off of deaf education is
the acquisition of "normal" speech. How many hundreds, even thousands,
of hours does a deaf child with an implant spend in speech and auditory
therapy? Much of this time could be more profitably devoted to getting
a real education&#150;improving literacy skills, for example.
The oralists don&#146;t want to admit it, but the fact is, deaf
children who have a strong foundation in sign language actually do
better in acquiring good speech skills. Why? Because they already have
a foundation in language when they start speech practice. Compelling
the children to practice speech and listening before they have a
working knowledge of language only retards their progress. It&#146;s
putting the cart before the horse.
This is one of the most frequently-reiterated claims of the oralists:
that oral-deaf people are more successful than signing-Deaf people,
that they have unlimited educational and employment options and a vast
array of social opportunities, whereas deaf people who depend on
igning as their everyday mode of communication are restricted
educationally and employment-wise and limited socially to a small,
isolated group of signers. This is negative propaganda. It doesn&#146;t
represent the truth. The true picture is far more complex than the
oralists would have you believe. Sign language doesn&#146;t restrict
us. It doesn&#146;t limit our horizons, it frees us to be ourselves. We
don&#146;t consider ourselves constrained or limited by our preference
for ASL.
Members of the CI lobby want parents to believe that in choosing an
implant for their children, they&#146;re giving them a magic key to
entry into a world without limitations. This, too, is propaganda. The
reality is not quite that neat.
How much person-to-person contact have you had with deaf people with
We have a few friends with CIs, and have had some degree of friendly
contact with several other people who do have them, primarily those who
have appeared on DEAF LIFE covers and those profiled in Great Deaf
Americans: The Second Edition. And people we&#146;ve "met" through the
Internet, and in person.
At an educational conference in North Carolina, we met several deaf
children with implants, and none of them could communicate with us. And
ince this was an inclusive conference, the kids could see Deaf adults,
teens, and children signing fluently to each other. Since they
hadn&#146;t been exposed to signing (it&#146;s typically forbidden in
trict oral programs, and their parents were not using any signing at
home), they couldn&#146;t join in. They were smart enough to realize
that they were missing out on something important.
At another conference a few years ago, we met a deaf woman who had
chosen an implant for herself, and we had a good talk. She told us that
he didn&#146;t believe that implants were right for deaf children,
that it should be a matter of informed choice, that implants
didn&#146;t make a deaf person hearing. A number of deaf people with
implants are fluent signers, and didn&#146;t sever their connections to
the Deaf community after getting one. (Getting flak from Deaf
anti-implant advocates is another matter entirely.) Choosing an implant
is a decision they&#146;ve made for themselves because they want to
gain access to the enrichment of sound, to be better able to modulate
their voices, to hear the voices of their spouses and children, to
enjoy music, maybe even use a voice telephone. They still consider
themselves deaf.
Some members of ALDA (the Association of Late-Deafened Adults) have
gotten them. Late-deafened adults are often considered exemplary
candidates. Virtually all have retained clear speech, have "Hearing"
backgrounds, and maintain strong connections to the Hearing community.
Some have already learned to sign and also participate in
Deaf-community activism. They represent a fascinating and colorful
egment of the Deaf-community population.
Certainly . . . if they want to be. We are amply aware that some
oral-deaf persons, with or without implants, reject any idea of
affiliation with this community. They identify solely with the Hearing
community. That&#146;s fine with us, since it represents their choice.
It&#146;s not likely that our paths will cross.
Oralists and signers have a number of shared concerns. Some of these
are: telecommunications (access to 911 and other emergency services;
the availability of TTY payphones), media (closed-captioning of local
newscasts, open-captioned first run movies in cinemas), access to
public facilities; and communicative access (getting sign-language or
oral interpreters when they&#146;re needed). And for most people with
cochlear implants (most of whom, as far as we can tell, have achieved
more modest gains than the spectacular ones enjoyed by Sigrid Cerf!),
these concerns haven&#146;t been eliminated. You would have to talk to
the people with implants to get their views. Some are oralists; some
are signers; some are eclectics. There&#146;s a wide spectrum of
experiences and a diversity of views. All deserve representation.
We are quite aware that some implant users love their implants, enjoy
what the implants do for them, and would never consider having them
removed. Some, who have received implants as children, are glad their
parents made that decision for them. Others aren&#146;t. A good number
of adults with CIs (and who are happy with them) don&#146;t believe
that they&#146;re appropriate for children.
Many questions. We&#146;ve been following the biotechnological
developments with interest. We&#146;re aware that the 24-channel
implant is much less obtrusive-looking than the previous models, and
mall enough to be used in infants.
We are simply not convinced that the CI is the ultimate solution to the
"problem" of being profoundly deaf. As is fairly well known, the
installation of a CI destroys whatever residual hearing the implantee
might have. During CI surgery, a narrow tube containing the array of
electrodes is inserted into the cochlea, like threading a flexible wire
into a nautilus shell. This requires cutting into the cochlea and
irreversibly destroying some of the tissue. There are a number of deaf
people who consider this prospect scary, since the surgery cannot be
undone. A number of these people are intrigued by the possibility of a
pill that might enable the nerve tissue to regenerate, thereby gaining
or regaining he capability to hear, but they are disturbed by the
prospect of having to undergo invasive head surgery. The CI still, as
far as we can tell, has a totally unpredictable outcome.
The FDA approved cochlear implants for adults in 1985, and for children
over 18 months of age in 1990, and has subsequently lowered the age to
infancy. Deaf people (e.g., the NAD) have complained that the FDA did
not consult them, that their concerns were not taken into account, and
that the FDA proceeded recklessly, bowing to the interests of a wealthy
industry. The long-term effects of the implants are still unknown, and
there is some fear that we may have another "Meme" scenario in the
not-too-distant future. Sure, they say, the FDA insists that cochlear
implants are safe. Wasn&#146;t this exactly what they were saying about
ilicone breast implants not so long ago?
Lately, we&#146;ve learned that some CIs manufactured in the U.S. may
aggravate or even cause bacterial meningitis, a potentially fatal
infection of the lining of the surface of the brain, in children and
adults. An Associated Press report dated July 25, 2002 notes that
thirteen implantees in the U.S. have come down with meningitis,
including two deaf preschoolers who died. According to this report,
even implantees in other countries have also died from meningitis, and
these cases are being investigated by U.S. health authorities. Doctors
have been asked to report "any suspicious meningitis cases" to the FDA,
to "aggressively treat ear infections" in implantees, and make sure
children are properly vaccinated against meningitis.
So there is a certain degree of medical risk involved with the CI.
It&#146;s not like getting a pair of eyeglasses. It&#146;s not like
having one&#146;s tonsils removed. It involves insertion of a foreign
object inside the head.
Is it worth the risk?
We believe in giving parents of deaf kids the full picture&#150;not
just the portion that the CI industry wants them to see. We believe
that when parents have access to full information, they&#146;re in a
better position to make a good decision. We have already heard from
ome parents who say they weren&#146;t sufficiently informed of the
Deaf Community&#146;s attitude towards implants and that if they had
known beforehand, would not have committed themselves to giving their
child an implant.
We are not fighting against the implant. We support the right of deaf
people to make informed choices for themselves.
The CI doesn&#146;t make a deaf person hearing. It does not constitute
a bionic replacement for the delicate and complicated sense of hearing
that has been lost or damaged.
When we say that a person with an implant is still deaf, we mean that
it doesn&#146;t nullify one&#146;s being deaf. It doesn&#146;t reverse
deafness. It mechanically provides sound stimulation, but it
doesn&#146;t make a deaf person hearing. Disconnect the implant, and
the user is audiologically deaf again.
A deaf child with an implant is still going to be treated by others as
deaf, not hearing. They still need speech therapy, rehabilitation,
adaptation, and technological aids. Those who remain in the oralist
ector will undoubtedly need oral interpreters. Society doesn&#146;t
ee implanted people as "ex-deaf," but as "still deaf."
What do you mean by "isolation"? To us, an isolated deaf person is
omeone who lacks language and social contact with others who can
communicate with him. And by "communication," we mean visual
communication.
Deaf people, contrary to negative stereotypes, are not against
technological progress. Many of us have fax machines, signaling
devices, TTYs, computers, the Internet, caption-capable TVs, and
instant-messaging systems. Some of us have wireless pagers. We use and
appreciate these devices and programs because they enhance our
communicative and working capabilities. They enrich our lives, or
imply make them easier. Some of us use hearing aids. Some of us
don&#146;t. We are extremely skeptical about the touted "benefits" of
the CI. We don&#146;t see how it can de-isolate or de-marginalize the
Deaf community. Only a wide-scale positive change in public attitudes
can do that, and we don&#146;t see how CIs are accomplishing that. We
ee it as having more of a negative effect.
For those who have lost their hearing, implants are undoubtedly "a good
thing for society." If we became blind, we would want our eyes replaced
or fixed. As sighted persons, we&#146;ve had all these decades of
experience as a sighted person, so we know what vision means, and what
we&#146;d be losing. Those who consciously choose to accept an implant
understand that there are no guarantees, acknowledge the risks
involved, and accept the possibility that they may not derive
ignificant benefit from it. Those who have had previous experience
with sound (late-deafened or progressively-deafened people) tend to do
best.
Because they don&#146;t consider themselves as patients with broken
auditory equipment that needs fixing. They don&#146;t see themselves in
terms of loss or deficit. They don&#146;t see themselves as candidates
for head surgery. They see themselves as whole, just as they are. They
live full, rich, rewarding lives as Deaf people. They consider CI
urgery a violently extreme intrusion into their bodies. The message
they&#146;re getting from the medical establishment is "Society
isn&#146;t comfortable with your deafness problem, so let&#146;s fix
you."
The proponents of implants want the deaf person to bear the full burden
of the responsibility for communication, the burden of conforming to
what society sees as "normal" and "acceptable." Culturally-Deaf people
believe that deaf people are whole and healthy as they are, and that
ociety should make communication more accessible and more just. They
want acceptance and understanding.
Do you see deaf people in terms of deficit, of disability, as specimens
of auditory pathology, or as full-fledged members of a
cultural-linguistic minority? The two views are essentially
irreconcilable. Someone who maintains that deafness needs to be cured
will probably not understand the cultural view of ASL.
Entirely aside from that is the expense factor. Implants usually cost
omething like $50,000 a pop, and we don&#146;t think that figure even
includes the ensuing regimen of auditory and speech therapy. How many
of these parents would plunk down that kind of money if it wasn&#146;t
covered by health insurance? And one of the lines of reasoning used by
these advocates is that the implant is, in the long run,
cost-effective. It&#146;s cheaper than the ultimate expense of sending
a child to a school for the deaf and having the government put her on
the SSI rolls after she graduates. Ah . . . but is it really? All those
clinical and rehabilitative and audiological services are expensive,
and someone&#146;s gotta pay for them!
Culturally-Deaf people have moral qualms about helping to pay for
omeone else&#146;s implant, especially when that someone else is a
deaf child. They also have qualms about the implant industry&#146;s
making money off deaf people&#146;s deafness. As far as we know, no
deaf people occupy high positions in these corporations or clinics.
Few, if any, deaf people are directly benefiting from the implant
windfall. The implant industry is profiting directly from deaf
children&#146;s deafness&#150;and what is it doing to improve the
overall quality of deaf people&#146;s lives? To some of us, this is an
ethical issue. Ask any culturally-Deaf person how s/he feels about
this, and you&#146;re bound to get a vehement answer.
We don&#146;t feel that cochlear implants are good for born-deaf
children. Why? It confuses them. It aggravates sensory confusion.
Instead of being able to focus on language acquisition, they&#146;re
being forced to focus on auditory therapy. They should be encouraged to
develop a strong foundation in visual language first before embarking
on a speech-and-hearing regimen. Learning should utilize our strongest
enses, not our weakest one. Deaf people are primarily visual learners,
not auditory learners.
Our feeling is that you can&#146;t force a born-deaf child to
comprehend sounds any more than you can force a blind child to see
colors. The sounds they&#146;re getting from the implant are not
natural sounds, they&#146;re electronic sounds. Even if they&#146;re
responding to the sounds of a water faucet or a passing train, how
"natural" are these sounds? They have to be trained to interpret these
electronic sounds as speech, etcetera, don&#146;t they?
It depends on the "nothing," doesn&#146;t it? If you envision deaf
children as existing in a tragically isolated "world of silence," of
course you&#146;ll want to end that isolation through medical
intervention. That&#146;s the compassionate thing to do. But if you
recognize that deaf people already have a language and a community, and
that this can be made immediately accessible to deaf children, then you
may change your mind: "Oh, maybe it&#146;s not necessary to compel
these children to undergo head surgery to have full and rewarding
lives, after all."
Yes, we agree that it&#146;s good to expose deaf children to the world
of sound&#150;but not at the expense of their literacy! They should
acquire a solid foundation in visual language first and foremost, and
then literacy skills (reading and writing).
It&#146;s impossible to deny the glowing tones of the testimonials
we&#146;ve read. Still, we find these claims difficult to believe,
because this is exactly what the audiometrics industry was claiming
about hearing aids for deaf kids&#150;that they would enable children
to attain natural or near-natural oral-language acquisition, thereby
eliminating the "deafness problem." We&#146;ve had a couple of
generations of deaf children growing up with these "miraculous" aids,
and we fail to see what "miraculous" effect they&#146;ve had on the
acquisition of speech and literacy. We don&#146;t believe that
electronic stimulation can be a "miraculous" substitute for natural
hearing. Well, you may note, so the 24-channel implant enables a wider
and more natural range of sounds to be decoded than was possible with
hearing aids? Too bad we can&#146;t take loaner models home and sample
them before committing ourselves to the purchase!
One thing that we&#146;d like to emphasize, and which we feel is
getting overlooked in this cochlear-implant slugfest, is the crucial
importance of teaching deaf children how to read and write.
As you may already know, most everyone agrees that we have a really big
illiteracy and substandard-literacy problem in the Deaf community. No
one agrees about the cause. Alumni of oral/aural programs often have
the same kind of problems stereotypically linked to those from schools
for the deaf. So we don&#146;t think that ASL is to blame for our
illiteracy problem.
It is crucially important for deaf kids to learn to read and write
competently. The earlier they acquire these skills, and the more highly
they develop them, the more academically and socially successful
they&#146;ll be, and they&#146;ll enjoy more rewarding careers and
happier personal lives. We have shared this view with teachers,
parents, and students alike. In our outreach efforts, we&#146;ve
encouraged Deaf teens to practice and improve their literacy skills,
and to make reading and writing part of their everyday lives&#150;an
enjoyable part.
All this sounds ridiculously obvious. But we feel that this vitally
important issue is getting trampled and buried beneath the stampede of
cochlear-implant controversy. Proponents of cochlear implants claim
that kids with implants are able to receive information aurally, as
hearing kids effortlessly do . . . but are they really getting all the
information? Aren&#146;t they missing something? Is the implant really
the "miracle fix" for deaf illiteracy? For decades, hearing aids were
touted as the great "cure" for our plight. Most, if not all, students
attending schools and programs for the deaf were required to wear them.
It was mandatory, even for the profoundly deaf. And how well have these
aids improved deaf people&#146;s literacy skills? Not much, if at all.
This intensive aural-rehabilitation regimen that&#146;s part of the
childhood-cochlear-implant package&#150;is this really going to help
their literacy?
As far as we&#146;re concerned, the ability to read and write is far
more important than the ability to speak clearly. (How many deaf people
can attain that degree of polish, and how many thousands of hours of
peech therapy does it take?) Without a solid foundation in literacy,
how can a person develop good speech and listening skills? This implant
brouhaha (give deaf kids bionic hearing so they can have better
peech!) has distracted us so badly that we&#146;re in danger of losing
ight of the priorities.
And this is one thing that worries us: that children with implants are
being categorically excluded from the advantages of visual language and
visual learning. The implant has unleashed a new assault against ASL
and sign-based education. This is definitely not a good thing.
As far as deaf children are concerned, audiometrics should not be at
the top of our priorities. Deaf children should learn how to read and
write first. They need this far more than they need implants. Reading
and writing are far more important skills than speaking and listening.
In the electronic-highway era, it has become increasingly important to
know how to read well and how to communicate well through writing.
Using a computer keyboard to produce coherent, articulate written
communications, or even searching the Net, demands a high degree of
literacy skill. The need for these skills has only increased, not
lessened.
Among the hearing population, as you&#146;re surely aware, the level of
literacy in the U.S. has declined precipitously during the past few
decades, what with the incursion of television and video. Deaf people
with substandard literacy skills are already at a disadvantage in the
fiercely competitive job market. We&#146;d like to see more ABE classes
for Deaf adults, and a greater commitment to literacy in the schools
erving deaf students. We don&#146;t think mainstreaming has been
working out well for many deaf children. They&#146;re just not getting
an education&#150;not adequate, let alone equal. Now we have an influx
of deaf kids with implants coming into the public schools, the schools
for the deaf, and the new oral schools. One Deaf superintendent told me
(off the record) that there were several deaf kids with implants in his
chool, and all of them had language delays.
The audiological/oral lobby has far more money and commercial clout
than the Deaf lobby does. Compare the annual operating budgets of the
Alexander Graham Bell Association for the Deaf and the NAD, and
you&#146;ll see what we mean. (If the ASL advocates are such a
ruthlessly powerful and influential faction, as our critics argue, why
weren&#146;t they able to prevent the FDA from approving implants for
deaf babies?) Imagine what schools and programs serving deaf children,
teens, and adults could do with the money that&#146;s being spent on
childhood cochlear implants&#150;$50,000 apiece! Federal monies spent
by the National Institutes of Health to study language acquisition in
youthful implantees could be more profitably used to improve deaf
children&#146;s literacy skills.
We fail to see how the implant boom is improving public attitudes
towards deaf people or ASL or the Deaf community at all. Indeed, we see
igns of a backlash. It&#146;s so ironic&#150;at a time when more and
more hearing high-school and college students are enrolling in ASL
classes, and a number of scholars and laypeople are showing increased
interest in and appreciation of Deaf issues, there&#146;s a redoubled
movement to close down the schools for the deaf, reroute all deaf
children into mainstream public-school programs, and to "fix the
problem" with implants. When oral/aural and sign-language programs are
competing for governmental funding, which one is going to get it?
Opponents of the Deaf community like to accuse Deaf people of wanting
to keep deaf children deaf to maintain a population base for the
purpose of perpetuating Deaf culture, or more explicitly, of
artificially prolonging a dying and ghettoized subculture by recruiting
as many deaf children as they can. According to this logic, they oppose
the childhood CI because it diminishes the pool of potential recruits.
This is an invidious accusation.
Our motivation is not to artificially prolong a dying and ghettoized
ubculture, as some of our critics would have it, or to make sure that
we have a sizable pool of young Deaf Culture recruits to sustain the
Deaf population, but the well-being of all deaf children and their
families.
Our concern is for the welfare of deaf children. Deaf adults, as you
may know, have traditionally had an impassioned concern for deaf
children. They are our brothers and sisters, in a sense, and who else
peaks for them? Certainly not hearing parents. Only a deaf person can
understand what it&#146;s like to be deaf. And many deaf adults,
especially those from oral/aural backgrounds, have personally
experienced the pain of exclusion within their own families, missed
connections, misconnections, and the terrible frustrations accruing
from not being able to communicate or be understood. They understand
the failings of oralism that the oralists have refused to acknowledge.
This is what they wish to spare other deaf children. This is what
they&#146;ve been trying to make parents understand. Why should any
more deaf children go through that ordeal? Why should their parents
pend enormous quantities of time and money to learn the hard way that
they&#146;ve been bamboozled?
A child&#146;s first human need is to communicate. That is the
uncontestable first fact of life. Before there can be literacy, there
must be language, and to have access to language, you must have a means
of communication. Deaf people in the United States and Canada have
found that ASL affords them an immediate means of communication and a
ource of enrichment and freedom. A means of liberation, if you will.
This is something that neither the medical/audiological lobby nor the
implant industry recognize. (But why should they? When deaf children
become ASL users instead of consumers of expensive audiometrics, it
cuts into their profit margins!)
We believe wholeheartedly that all deaf children have a right to free,
full, unimpeded communication, to language, to literacy, and to the
best possible education. We know that the reality is far short of the
ideal. Our task is never done. We don&#146;t advocate separatism (being
insular and exclusionary), but establishing connections between the
Deaf and Hearing communities. We seek to promote better understanding
among the factions.
Ah, yes, factions. There is, after all, an ideological rift between the
igning and oral factions, and we don&#146;t think that it will ever be
resolved. However, as we&#146;ve noticed, the division between
"signing" deaf and "speaking" deaf isn&#146;t always that absolute. A
number of deaf people from oral backgrounds learn to sign, have Deaf
friends, and participate in Deaf-community activities. Some deaf people
hold multiple memberships in organizations that putatively represent
oppositional aims: the NAD, ALDA, Bell Association, and SHHH.
However, the attitudes of the medical/audiological sector haven&#146;t
changed much, if at all. They still don&#146;t recognize Deaf people as
a linguistic community; they have no interest in sign language; they
continue to see deaf people as physically defective, as having hearing
disabilities, as needing to be fixed, as consumers of their
audiological prostheses. Those who oppose them are merely obstructing
biomedical progress and, like picketers on the sidewalks of the
entryway, can be ignored. Let&#146;s proceed with business as usual!
Our company runs a bulletin-board Website called DeafNotes, which has a
forum on cochlear implants. It has been the most frequently-posted and
hotly-debated of all the topics on that site since it was launched in
July 1999. Hotter than the sign-versus-speech and the mainstreaming
debates. The debate quickly began getting acrimonious, with parents who
have chosen to give their deaf children implants posting threads like
"Cochlear Implant Success Stories," and verbally slugging it out with
Deaf people who feel that implants for deaf children are a form of
child abuse. It has been a real headache for the moderators and us.
We recall how it started. When a woman who had chosen to give her young
deaf son an implant entered the debate, it had an explosive effect. We
had to delete a batch of postings because the dialogue had degenerated
into crude, juvenile mudslinging, name-calling, and insults. This was
in explicit violation of the DeafNotes rules of conduct. And that was
just the beginning.
It&#146;s not just that these parents think their children&#146;s
progress is miraculous and want to tell the world about it; a few of
them have been actively and aggressively promoting implants. We call
them the "implant evangelists."
A relatively small number of parents of deaf children with implants.
There are a few of them who are notoriously aggressive and belligerent
in their ideological stance. Just nasty characters. They have been
regularly interviewed by hearing-media reporters. They see themselves
as ambassadors for the cause of implanting deaf kids. They have two
faces: the mask of the loving, concerned parent (which they show to the
hearing media), and underneath, the face of the intransigent bigot
(which they show to the Deaf community). We feel sorry for their kids.
Getting back to DeafNotes&#150;now, this site is supposed to be an open
forum for the free discussion of opposing and dissenting views, and we
encourage open debate. Although we&#146;ve sought to promote the free
exchange of views, this site has been a real ideological minefield. The
disagreements have occasionally overstepped the bounds of acceptable
behavior. We&#146;ve had some difficulty with Deaf advocates, who can
be as extreme in their rhetoric as any diehard oralist. But we&#146;ve
have the worst trouble with the implant evangelists. We had to ban a
few of them because they repeatedly broke the rules&#150;they showed
discourtesy to others, insulted opponents, used sarcasm and profanity,
and engaged in illicit promotion of commercial cochlear-implant sites.
They interfered with other participants&#146; enjoyment of the site,
and made life difficult for the moderators.
What they were doing&#150;or trying hard as hell to do&#150;was
providing free advertising for the cochlear-implant
industry&#150;posting messages with links to corporate and promotional
CI sites. And that is expressly prohibited under the DeafNotes rules.
Free advertising of any product, service, company, or commercial site
is not allowed. This prohibition has been routinely violated by the
implant evangelists. When we removed their offensive posts, they
creamed and cussed at us. A few of them sent us obscene E-mails. They
called us Nazis. They accused us of censoring their free speech by
uppressing their news about the miraculous progress their implanted
kids have been making. In reality, we banned them because of their
tubborn refusal to abide by the DeafNotes rules.
Apparently not. In late 1997, after publishing a cover story containing
an interview with Sigrid Cerf, we contacted the company that
manufactured the implant she uses, and invited them to advertise in
DEAF LIFE. We received no response. Neither did we get a response from
the other major CI company, which had been sending us frequent
promotional releases and propaganda for years. Neither of these
corporations evinced the slightest interest in placing an ad in DEAF
LIFE or a banner-ad in any of our Websites. And yet, when we removed
posts with promotional links, the implant evangelists cried foul.
That&#146;s what the CI lobby and the implant evangelists would like
the public to believe. We&#146;re more apt to read about the "miracle
tories" of deaf kids with implants because their parents have been
actively publicizing and promoting implants, with the aid of the
implant industry, which has one of the slickest propaganda campaigns
we&#146;ve ever seen. Kids who start signing at an early age (i.e.,
native ASL users) are relatively invisible in the mass media, since
their parents aren&#146;t engaging in the public promotion of ASL. Open
up a women&#146;s magazine and you&#146;re bound to see a glowing
testimonial by a happy mother about the joys of having a deaf child
with an implant: "our miracle child." But do you ever see an article
about the delights of parenting an ASL-using child? My proposal:
parents of Deaf kids should mount their own promotional campaign:
"Here&#146;s our &#145;miracle child!&#146;"
We find it morally questionable, the way some of these parents parade
their implanted children around to the media, show them off to
legislators, have them testify before Congress . . . More funding for
cochlear-implant programs, please, and as long as you&#146;re at it,
you can cut the budgets of those sign-language programs. We certainly
don&#146;t need them.
Some of these implant evangelists exercise a form of denial. They claim
that their children were born hearing, then became deaf, so by giving
them implants, they&#146;re restoring their children&#146;s original
hearing. Can they prove their children were born hearing? Can they
really provide proof? Or are they saying these things to justify their
agenda?
The issue is not inflicting a "world of total silence" on deaf children
but providing them with a rich, immediately accessible visual language
and social life. Deaf kids benefit from a signing environment. They
don&#146;t need a CI to derive this benefit.
Many parents who give their kids implants want them to use the
oral/aural mode exclusively&#150;no signing allowed. Parents who make
the decision to give their children implants often say things like, "We
wanted to give our child a choice. If Jimmy wants to learn sign
language later and be deaf and switch off the implant, that&#146;s fine
with us." But how is Jimmy going to make a choice when he has no daily
exposure to ASL or Deaf mentors? When he&#146;s getting exposed only to
an auditory/oral approach? When he&#146;s enrolled in a program that
discourages signing? When his attempts to communicate in sign are
rebuffed or ignored?
Signing does not limit one&#146;s communication options. It is the
communication option preferred by most deaf people who have been
exposed to it. It is the most natural, comfortable, and enjoyable mode
of communication for many of us. It is simply untrue that skilled
igners (i.e., those who claim ASL as their first language) become
"lazy," that they cannot develop good speech skills. Signers typically
develop better speech skills than those who use the oral/aural approach
exclusively.
Unfortunately, there are a number of parents who are adamantly opposed
to signing, and those who feel that signing is too difficult to learn,
and that the CI approach is easier for everyone. They may be far more
committed to the CI than to signing. If they feel this way, the child
won&#146;t get exposure to good signing at home, and if s/he&#146;s in
a strict oral program, may not be allowed to use sign at all at school.
That puts a psychological burden on the child.
The extreme culturally-Deaf view is that cochlear implants are a form
of child abuse, even genocide&#150;accusations that anger parents and,
moreover, would be exceptionally difficult to prove in court. We can
understand why Deaf people feel this way, why they feel that implants
represent the latest of several organized attempts to wipe out Deaf
culture.
To understand what seems to be an irrational, even reprehensible,
opposition to biotechnological progress, you need to understand
omething about Deaf history, the attitudes of the oralists, and the
control they have wielded over the lives and destinies of deaf people.
You need to understand Alexander Graham Bell&#146;s eugenicist views,
his obsession with eradicating the "deaf variety of the human race,"
his friendship with Edward Miner Gallaudet, and the feud that ensued
between them, which led to an ideological rift whose legacy was
unhappy, even tragic: the turning of the tide of public opinion in
favor of oralism and against signing, the upsurge of oral education
with its concomitant suppression of signing, the methodical campaign to
eradicate sign language, and the pathological view that still holds
way in the medical profession. E.M. Gallaudet founded Gallaudet
University, which remained a bastion of signing, but the influence of
the oralists pervaded that institution, too, although not as radically
as it pervaded the schools for the deaf. At Gallaudet, oralists were
treated with deference. Where oralism reigned (and they had an iron
grip on virtually all schools for the deaf for close to half-a-century
at the least), signing was proscribed, and the ban was enforced with
varying degrees of rigor. You need to understand the terrible
punishment meted out to deaf children in these schools for exercising
that innate human urge, the need to communicate. And the inauguration
of the shameful tradition of "oral failures," and the low expectations
that became part of the legacy of education of the deaf.
You need to understand the Milan Congress of 1880, which led to the
official suppression, or outright banning, of signing in virtually
every school for the deaf in the United States, the forcing-out of deaf
people from the profession of teaching other deaf people, where they
had served with distinction since Laurent Clerc began teaching at
Hartford in 1817. And the misery inflicted on generations of these
kids, who were deprived of both language and literacy. Sure, we&#146;ve
all read about the oral-deaf successes. We wonder about the thousands
of kids whose biographies did not represent glowing success stories.
Opponents of Deaf Culture prefer to focus on the exaggerated, extremist
rhetoric: the accusations of genocide, the proposal that hearing
parents should surrender their deaf children to Deaf advocates to
raise, etc. That&#146;s roughly equivalent to analyzing the feminist
movement by jeering at a hypothetical gaggle of bra-burners.
What these advocates are asking is that the parents allow the child to
have some degree of contact with the Deaf community, to maintain a
connection with the community, to let it be a presence in their lives.
Deaf children are often starved for adult Deaf mentors. That&#146;s
what this "surrogacy gripe" is about. Naturally, hearing parents who
dislike Deaf advocates, or who had had one too many dogmatic quarrels
with them, have used this as ammunition against them. Denigrating the
Deaf advocates buttresses their own positions. Dismissing the entire
Deaf community as nutcases or "ASL militants" makes one&#146;s
ideological commitment to the CI and the audiological/oral package that
much easier.
It survived because it was as essential to us as air, water, and food,
because deaf people needed a language of their own, because ASL served
their needs admirably, and because they found they could not live
without language. The oral/aural regimen did not give them what they
needed. Where signing was forbidden, they signed in secret&#150;in the
dormitories, in the lavatories, in the toilets. They signed wherever
and whenever they could. They signed at the risk of punishment. One
favorite tactic of the oralists was to tie students&#146; hands behind
their backs, secured to a chair, to prevent them from signing
urreptitiously in class. At mealtimes, they were strictly supervised
by hearing staffers (to varying degrees) to prevent signing among
themselves.
The suppression of sign did nothing to make the students happier and
more well-adjusted. Indeed, it&#146;s common to read firsthand accounts
in which deaf people, products of these repressive regimes, look back
at their schooldays with anger, frustration, and grief.
However, on-campus chapel services were typically conducted in sign,
because it was far easier for the students to understand. So the
organized churches, some of whose institutions played an important role
in the oralist movement, nonetheless helped keep ASL alive during what
we call the Dark Age of Oralism.
Students at rigorously oral programs still go through this kind of
experience, to some degree. True, they don&#146;t punish the kids for
igning, but signing is discouraged. Where signing is banned,
forbidden, or officially ignored, deaf students find ways to sign to
each other.
In oral schools for the deaf, there is usually a clandestine ASL
ubculture. They manage to pick it up, sometimes from signing adults on
taff (since there are at least a few deaf adults employed by oral
chools, although rarely in the top echelons, and these supposedly
oral-deaf adults sometimes know sign very well), or they&#146;ll learn
it from each other. There may be one student or a few who already have
a background in signing, and these students will teach the others. The
others pick it right up.
Clarke School for the Deaf, the oldest bastion of oral/aural education
in the U.S., had a long-standing and rigorous anti-sign policy for
tudents. They were not allowed to use sign language in the classrooms
or outside of it&#150;the hallways, the dorms, anywhere within the
boundaries of campus. Students routinely disregarded this policy, but
at their peril. Those who were caught signing were disciplined. For the
first offense, they received a teacher&#146;s reprimand. If a reprimand
didn&#146;t work, they were sent to the principal&#146;s office. If
they were caught in the act again, the parents were summoned to the
uperintendent&#146;s office. After nearly a century of trying to
extirpate signing, the administration finally acknowledged the futility
of its policy by decriminalizing it. Although deaf kids were still not
allowed to sign in class, they were at least allowed to sign freely
outside of class without fear of punishment.
We don&#146;t know what the current policies are at Central Institute
for the Deaf or St. Joseph&#146;s Institute (both in St. Louis), but
we&#146;d wager that they too have their secret signing groups. And in
the newly-opened schools for deaf children with implants, we
wouldn&#146;t be at all surprised if the kids found a way to sign in
ecret, too. But it&#146;s more difficult to do that in a day-school
environment. It&#146;s nigh-impossible to do in a mainstream
environment where the deaf student may be the only deaf person in the
chool.
Traditionally, deaf children learned ASL from each other, and learned
it quickly. Connecting with other deaf signers gave them a basis for
communication and community. It undoubtedly saved their sanity, too. It
enabled them to make sense of the environment they were in, the
relentless bombardment of speech and speechreading they endured and
tried to decode. Without that connection, how does a deaf child thrive?
The research of scholars like Goldin-Meadow and Mylander have shown
that deaf children, deprived of exposure to real sign languages, invent
their own. We are concerned about the emotional and cognitive
well-being of these young implantees in mainstreamed or strict-oral
environments. Some of them, of course, are receiving exposure to ASL.
But most, it seems, are not. What are the repercussions to their
emotional health? We&#146;d like to see an objective, scholarly study
on their progress.
ASL has survived all previous attempts by oralists to wipe it out, and
it will survive the CI too.
Very young deaf children who feel most comfortable in a
ign-affirmative environment quickly develop a definite sense of
elf-identity as Deaf. They don&#146;t mind being seen as "different."
To them, being deaf is normal. They want to be accepted as they are.
What sort of self-identity will these implanted kids have? Will they
consider themselves deaf or hearing? A question: What&#146;s special
about being deaf if you&#146;re merely seen as a defective hearing
person with bionic hearing? What&#146;s there to celebrate?
We ourselves don&#146;t have the answers to these questions. Only deaf
people who have grown up with CIs can answer them. Some reject what
they see as a "Deaf-Culture mentality." Others consider themselves
Deaf, and cherish their connection to the Deaf community.
As long as there are deaf people, there will be sign language. Deny
deaf children access to sign, and they&#146;ll spontaneously create
their own sign systems. Put deaf people together, and the creation
process is accelerated. Prevent from learning it when they&#146;re
young, and they will go to it as soon as they have the opportunity.
The Deaf community has managed to survive all previous attempts,
well-meaning and otherwise, to demolish it. We believe that it will
urvive this latest onslaught. It will survive because it fulfils the
innate need of deaf people to seek out and communicate with others like
themselves, those who truly understand how it feels and what it means
to be deaf.
No, Deaf culture will not die out. It will survive, and it will evolve.
We already know that many young deaf people who have had oral/aural
educations choose to learn sign language and join the community when
they reach their teens or college age. If this is so, we anticipate
that a large number of implantees will do likewise.
No matter how assiduously their parents, clinicians, medical
professionals, and the implant industry try to make the Deaf community
irrelevant and invisible, we believe that many of these deaf kids with
implants will ultimately choose to connect with our community. The
reason is fairly simple: deaf people like to be with other deaf people,
and we have a richly expressive visual-kinetic language (American Sign
Language in this country and Canada), and the bond of shared
perceptions and feelings. One of our challenges is to extend a warm
welcome to deaf people with implants. We cannot afford to reject any
deaf person simply because s/he has a CI. The Deaf community, like any
other community, contains its share of purists, elitists, and plain
nobs. They do not represent all Deaf people. We will do our best to
accord "new arrivals" the warm welcome they deserve. If they want to
join the Deaf community, we&#146;re here for them.
Hearing people have been teaching deaf people since deaf-ed began, of
course. But we believe that deaf people also have much to teach hearing
people about language, cognition, communication, coping, and the
wonderful resilience of the human spirit. They&#146;ve transformed a
devastating disability into a rich socio-linguistic culture.
They&#146;ve created a vibrant language. They&#146;ve established a
global community. That is cause for celebration.
Learning about deaf people enhances our understanding about what
communication is about, the many varieties of language and approaches
to learning, and also increases our understanding of how language is
processed in the brain (q.v. the ongoing research of Klima and Bellugi
at the Salk Institute). We already know how versatile and useful sign
language is, and how babies can learn to communicate in sign before
they can talk (q.v. Acredolo and Goodwyn&#146;s work on "baby signs"),
and how Deaf people are developing a corpus of ASL literature . . .
there&#146;s a lot to be fascinated with. Even the controversies are
intriguing, for at the core lie the central questions about what it
means to be human and to use language.
All human beings have disabilities. What we do with our
disabilities&#150;how we cope, how we respond&#150;is a reflection of
our qualities as human beings. Some of us have physical
disabilities&#150;and some of us have attitudinal disabilities.
Prejudice, the refusal to accept human different-ness, is an
attitudinal disability. Some of the comments we&#146;ve read from
implant evangelists and journalists are proof that the cochlear-implant
trend has not improved public attitudes towards deaf people. Indeed, it
has caused a retrogressive backlash. Culturally-Deaf people have been
truggling for centuries to have their languages recognized, and to
gain acceptance as they are.
The fact is that many disabled people have achieved greatly not despite
their disabilities but because of their disabilities. That is a human
paradox worth studying. And a good number of deaf people see their
deafness not as a curse but as a gift.
Every day now, we&#146;re faced with the task of combating a
uper-slick propaganda campaign mounted by a powerful and wealthy
industry and aimed at parents who may be in a state of shock, who
desperately want their children to be "normal," but may have scant idea
of what "normal" encompasses. To us, being deaf is normal, and to be
Deaf is to be whole. We do not live in a "silent world." We live in the
real one, the same world that hearing people live in. Our lives are
just as busy and full as those of hearing people. We may communicate
differently&#150;using a visual-kinectic instead of an aural/oral
mode&#150;but we have hearts, minds, and capabilities like everyone
else&#146;s. That&#146;s what we, as Deaf people, want to make the
Hearing community understand. We don&#146;t see ourselves as needing
"bionic ears" to give us entry into the world. We&#146;re here,
we&#146;re whole, and we want to be accepted as we are. Please take
note of that.
This site is to be considered "in progress." We solicit input from deaf
people who have firsthand experience with implants, negative and
positive. We welcome your participation.
__________________________________________________________________
[cochlearwar.gif]
Introduction | History | Forum | Newsflash
For Parents Only | Myths & Facts | Deaf can do
All original material used in CochlearWar.com is the property of MSM
Productions, Ltd. and is protected by copyright. No material can be
excerpted, paraphrased, or published in any form (whether in print of
electronically) without the express written permission of the owner.
2003-2016, MSM Productions, Ltd.
[msmhome.gif]
