Feed Talk and Play, Everyday!: Lunchtime Bless Your Heart

Search for: ____________________ Search
HOME ABOUT CONTACT
Home > Open-minded Deaf person’s views
« Talk and Play, Everyday!: Lunchtime
Bless Your Heart »
Open-minded Deaf person’s views
April 5th, 2008 by Rachel | Tags: Acceptance, ASL, Deaf Community, Opinion |
240 Comments »
PrintFriendly and PDF Print
The other day, I received a very heartwarming comment under the entry,
It’s different…, from Open-minded Deaf person. His comment meant a lot
to me because he, as a deaf person who was raised with ASL, understands
the importance of CIs and the oral/AVT approach today for me and other
CI users and also acknowledges how I would feel when my CIs are turned
off. He is someone who is willing to face the changes in the deaf
community and acknowledges that the changes are happening for the
better. Anyways, I’ll let his words speak for himself:
I won’t criticize the issue of cochlear implant since I am not a
ubject of cochlear implant. Only people with cochlear implant can
either give feedback or criticize it. But with experience of
associating with people with cochelar implant or researching
information of good and bad sides of cochelar implant, people without
cochelar implant can justify the case. Hence, parents of cochlear
implanted children are foremost people without cochlear implant to
voice about it.
Since I am Deaf using ASL as I grew up at residential school for the
deaf and graduated from Gallaudet University, I have to admit that
there are times that I am frustrated for being Deaf because I lack my
oral skills as I am coping lot of barriers especially communication or
job opportunity because lot of jobs require good oral skills especially
using phone. I am so tired of having to depend on paper/pen and paper
to communicate people who lack knowledge on sign language.
I am hearing more positive side of people with cochlear implant since
they are able to use spoken language fluently just like hearing people
and they don’t have to depend on interpreters while I rely on
interpreters. Thus, it has to do with my disability since I lack an
ability to convey the spoken language. But I don’t feel disability when
I associate people who use ASL fluently.
If technology of cochlear implant occurs during my time I enter the
world, I know that I will have cochlear implant since I belong to a
majority group of deaf people since I come from hearing parents.
As a teacher at small state supported school for the deaf, it is sad to
note that I am glad that my children are hearing so I don’t have to
move to another place where there are sufficient number of deaf
tudents at school. Now if my children are deaf, will they get cochlear
implant? I cannot answer that because it is not happening. Thank God
and I pray that my children will not lose their hearing since I know
that they will have so much unlimited opportunity out there when they
finish school.
While I took deaf culture course, Dr. Yerker Anderson, a noted Deaf
ociologist, was a guest speaker and he told the class that a futurist
told him that deaf culture would diminish in the future.
Now it is becoming more reality as I am not sure if I am recalling
correctly but I just learned that Sweden government are footing bills
on cochlear implant surgery for deaf children. In the past, it was
Sweden law that parents of deaf babies/children are referred to the
deaf communities that advocate sign language.
If people with cochlear implant are happy for what they are, these
matter me the most since if they are happy, then I am happy. If they
are sad, I will feel bad. So I have to say that people who criticize
about cochlear implant are truly deniers or another better word,
narrowed-minded whiners.
It is waste of energy, money and time for people to go Deaf Bilingual
Coalition convention to harass AGB people. I say AGB people without
cochlear implant truly care for betterment of deaf children with
cochelar implant or oral skills who have better opportunity than deaf
children without cochlear implant due to job market where the world is
run dominately by spoken language. For people who advocate DBC, don’t
you find anything more exciting than just being so obsessed with your
disagreement with the agendas of AGB. Cochlear implant are here to stay
and it is sad to note that the deaf culture is becoming smaller and
maller.
So I am a dying breed of Deaf people and I accept the fact as I want
betterment for deaf children than what I have been through in my life
ince I wish I have oral skills due so I have lot of choice to make. I
don’t blame for parents who choose cochlear implant surgery for their
deaf children.
Related Posts :
[noimage.gif&w=100&h=100&zc=1]
How to Give a Communication Options Talk... W...
Why Not Baby Signs?
[76191_7895-2-150x150.jpg&w=100&h=100&zc=1]
For Children with Hearing Loss, Not Just Any ...
[remote-2-83518-m-150x150.jpg&w=100&h=100&zc=1]
Nick News Review: Now Hear This! What If You...
close
IFRAME:
http://www.facebook.com/plugins/like.php?href=http://cochlearimplan
tonline.com/site/open-minded-deaf-persons-views/&send=false&layout=
button_count&show_faces=false&action=like&colorscheme=light&font
240 Comments
Tony Nicholas
April 5, 2008 at 4:19 pm
You only like his post because it fits in with your world view Rachel.
This post is not about acceptance per se, as much as it is about
acceptance of your world view.
You are not taking on board any of the contrary views at all.
I find it offensive that you would even consider this bit:
“….So I am a dying breed of Deaf people……….”
I don’t suppose you do irony, do you?
hel
April 5, 2008 at 5:44 pm
I agree with you, Tony. It is great that this person is very
understanding but what does it take for you, Rachel, to be just as
open-minded as well? This is not a put down of you as a person but I
have read several of your posts and I dont see anything supporting ASL
and the Deaf culture. Yet, you want us to support you and your views?
deafchipmunk
April 5, 2008 at 6:37 pm
I find your article purely biased. I do not agree with it at all. You
have always taken advantage of a few people’s comments. I have known
that you have never accepted ASL and Culture and have kept indirectly
attacking ASL and Culture in order to gain your ideologies. I have to
be blunt with you is that you behaviour is unacceptable. If you said
you support ASL and culture for any children, then I would not comment
that in the first place. But you never did that; therefore, I criticise
your invalid one sided beliefs. I believe your comment may have harmed
many innocent Deaf children. I have already seen them and you cannot
deny the facts. You should have made reasonable approach but you have
degraded ASL and Culture. That is, in my opinion, HATE LITERATURE! You
are no better than other people I have known.
Deafchip
ron
April 5, 2008 at 7:03 pm
Open minded, oh where is yours? Attiude is the answer for all blogs you
have done! Bring it on…
Rachel
April 5, 2008 at 7:08 pm
I’m here to educate and inform others about cochlear implants, AVT, and
my views. I’m not here to ask people to agree with me. If you don’t
like what I say, don’t bother coming to my site. I don’t need to deal
with people like you. You can choose to disagree with me, but there’s
no reason to be rude or ask me to change my mind. I didn’t say anywhere
in the entry that you all should change your point of view or you
hould go with Open-Minded Deaf person’s views. I was just sharing his
views and saying that I admire what he said. If you think that I don’t
understand well about the Deaf Culture or ASL, please explain politely
why ASL and Deaf Culture is important to you. Your rudeness will
continue to turn me away from wanting to learn about the Deaf Culture
and ASL.
April 5, 2008 at 7:49 pm
Also, I’m mainly a spokesperson for deaf children who use CIs and AVT
approach. As long as I continue to see the successes of deaf children
using CIs and the AVT approach, I will continue to support them. I’ve
met hundreds of CI children who have successes with their CIs and the
AVT/oral approach. You just have not yet met several probably because:
- You have not been to CI conventions or any kind of CI events.
- You have not visited an AVT center.
- You have not seen other CI users raised with the AVT approach
peaking up online like me. Deaf people who I personally know that have
uccess with AVT and their CIs are not willing to speak up because
they’re afraid they’ll be attacked by the deaf community who believe in
ASL and Deaf culture and/or think it’s a waste of time to debate with
them, and I don’t blame them.
If I saw a large number deaf people not having any success with their
CIs and/or AVT approach, I would certainly have a different viewpoint.
It’s OK for everyone to have different viewpoints, just as long as we
respect each other’s feelings and educate each other respectfully. We
may not come to an agreement, but we can certainly help each other
understand better why we feel the way we do.
Wondering
April 5, 2008 at 8:09 pm
Dear Rachel,
I have enjoyed reading your blog. You have let the world look through a
window into your life. That’s very brave of you and I admire that. I
personally would rather stay out of the “debate” that has raged on, so
that’s why I’m writing this anonymously.
Just so you have an idea of where I come from. I’m part of a group of
people who are probably unrepresented in the blog-sphere. I know sign
language, yet I function very well in the mainstream. Some call us
hard-of-hearing. I’ve never bothered much with labels.
Recently I started reading these online blogs through deafread.com and
I’ve found them very interesting. What has continued to disappoint me
is that nobody cites any academic research. When I’m keenly interested
in an issue, I use lexis-nexis or other sources to search for
peer-reviewed journals. I haven’t been able to find any good journal
articles showing the success of CIs. Could you do a blog introducing
readers to available research?
I did come across a journal article by a Gallaudet professor about the
lack of success of CIs. Maybe this is another blog idea for you. The
link is:
http://www.perspectiva.ufsc.br/perspectiva_2006_especial/03_Robert.pdf.
Yours,
Melissa
April 5, 2008 at 8:22 pm
Here are some citations of professional research:
“Factors Affecting the Development of Speech, Language, and Literacy
in Children With Early Cochlear Implantation”
Ann E. Geers, Central Institute for the Deaf, St. Louis, MO LANGUAGE,
SPEECH, AND HEARING SERVICES IN SCHOOLS • Vol. 33 • 172–183 • July 2002
“Use of an oral communication mode contributed significant variance to
all outcomes except for spoken and signed language. The greater the
emphasis on speech and auditory skill development the better the
outcome. Type of classroom reflects amount of time spent in a
mainstream class. This variable was significant for speech production,
language and reading.
“…Children whose educational program emphasized dependence on speech
and audition for communication were better able to use the information
provided by the implant to hear, speak and read. Use of sign
communication with implanted children did not promote auditory and
peech skill development and did not result in an advantage for overall
English language competence even when the outcome measure included sign
language. Oral education appears to be an important educational choice
for children who have received a cochlear implant before 5 years of
age.”
Language Skills of Children with Early Cochlear Implantation
Geers, Ann E.; Nicholas, Johanna G.; Sedey, Allison L.
Ear & Hearing. 24(1) Supplement:46S-58S, February 2003
Use of a cochlear implant has had a dramatic impact on the linguistic
competence of profoundly hearing-impaired children. More than half of
the children in this sample with average learning ability produced and
understood English language at a level comparable with that of their
hearing age mates. Such mature language outcomes were not typical of
children with profound hearing loss who used hearing aids. Use of a
visual (i.e., sign) language system did not provide the linguistic
advantage that had been anticipated. Children educated without use of
ign exhibited a significant advantage in their use of narratives, the
breadth of their vocabulary, in their use of bound morphemes, in the
length of their utterances and in the complexity of the syntax used in
their spontaneous language. An oral educational focus provided a
ignificant advantage for both spoken and total language skills.
Use of Speech by Children From Total Communication Programs Who Wear
Cochlear Implants
Ann Geers 1, Brent Spehar, Allison Sedey 2
1 Central Institute for the Deaf, St. Louis, MO
2 University of Colorado, Boulder” American Journal of Speech-Language
Pathology Vol.11 50-58 February 2002. doi:10.1044/1058-0360(2002/006)
Results revealed a wide range of mode preference, with some children
using primarily speech, some primarily sign, and some using both modes
to varying extents. Not only did speech users achieve higher auditory
peech perception scores and speech intelligibility ratings, but they
also demonstrated better comprehension and use of English syntax than
did children who used little or no speech. After 3 years with an
implant, speech users were more likely than children who used little or
no speech to be placed in mainstream educational programs.
Auditory-Verbal Graduates:Outcome Survey of Clinical Efficacy” Donald
M. Goldberg, Carol Flexer”
J Am Acad Audiol 12 : 406-414 (2001)
“Graduates of auditory-verbal programs
appear to become the “”anonymous deaf.””
They are in our local schools and blend into
higher education and various jobs, professions,
and careers…. Mohr
et al (2001) concluded that “”aggressive and early
intervention to reduce the level of hearing
impairment may produce savings to society.””
They appeared to be referring to reducing the
“”impact”” of hearing impairment. Our findings
imilarly suggest that graduates who began
their auditory-verbal program in the late 1940s
through the current date have indeed achieved
the stated goal of auditory-verbal practice : independence
in today’s mainstream society.”
Relationship Between Communication Mode and Implant Performance in
Pediatric CLARION Patients
Mary Joe Osberger, Ph.D., Susan Zimmerman-Phillips, MS., Laurel Fisher,
Ph. D., Advanced Bionics Corporation, Sylmar, CA”
Paper presented at 1997 5th International Cochlear Implant Conference,
May 1-3, 1996, New York, NY.
The relationship between preoperative communication mode (auditory/oral
or total communication) and postoperative performance on a battery of
audiological outcome measures was examined in pediatric patients who
received the CLARION cochlear implant. The results revealed that both
groups of children (children who used oral communication and children
who used total communication) showed significant improvement in
performance postoperatively with the CLARION relative to their
preoperative performance with hearing aids. The mean scores of the
children who used oral communication, however, were significantly
higher than those of the children who used total communication on all
of the outcome measures.
Approach to communication, speech perception and intelligibility after
paediatric cochlear implantation
S.M. Archbold, T.P. Nikolopoulos, M. Tait, G.M. O’Donoghue, M.E. Lutman
and S. Gregory
British Journal of Audiologist, 2000, 34, 257-264
The present study revealed that, on measures of speech perception and
intelligibility obtained three, four and five years after implantation,
children using oral communication outperformed those using signed
communication.
Classroom performance of children who are hearing impaired who learned
poken communication through the Auditory-Verbal approach
Wray, D., Flexer, C., & Vaccaro, V
The Volta Review, 1997, 99 (2), 107-119
Robertson and Flexer (1993) studied the performance on standardized
reading tests by 37 school-age children, ages 6 to 19 years, who
participated in various auditory-verbal programs. Their results
revealed that 30 of the subjects (the majority of whom had severe to
profound hearing losses) read in the average range or higher compared
with their normally hearing peers. Schildroth and Karchmer (1986)
reported nationwide reading-comprehension scores for 15 to 18 year olds
with hearing losses who were educated in various settings and who used
various communication modalities. The scores showed average reading
performance at about the third-grade level.
April 5, 2008 at 8:50 pm
Rachel,
This is your log, no one disputes that. You bahve your point of view,
no one dispoutes that.
Speaking to youa s a deaf person, who ha sbeen where you are now, the
fact is, if someone posts an opposing view, you are incapable or
unwilling to take it on board. Your refusal to engage with your
critics, no matter how conciliatory, is what makes me question the
veracity of your position.
Respect for a viewpoint, is not given just because you present it. If
it can survive a critical mauling, then there must be something of
value in it.
Your refusal to engage, as a deaf perosn, headon with your, deaf and
Deaf, critics or opposing views, renders your position precarious.
If you want respect for your veiwpoints, then you must write
respectfully…… of which this post, makes me question your comprehension
abilities.
Of which you have chosen to ignore this bit:
“…So I am a dying breed of Deaf people………” This is a rather sad
position to be in. To have one’s own self worth rendered valueless, and
the only redeeming feature is a future of implants…
April 5, 2008 at 9:55 pm
I work with deaf children including those who have been implanted. I
have seen some children who were successful with speech and listening
kills and many who werent successful. In fact, those who werent
uccessful are severely delayed in language because they didnt have
full acess to language during the first 5 years of life. To me, AVT is
putting these children at risk cuz we will never know who will succeed
or who will not succeed. With ASL, because it is a visual language,
these kids will guaranteed to have full acess to language. That is why
I do not support AVT and strictly oral-only approaches. While u have
een the successes, I have seen both. Have u seen what happens to
children who are deprived of language because their parents desperately
want them to hear and speak like hearing children?
It is a disgrace to these children and it needs to be stopped.
Barb DiGi
April 5, 2008 at 10:14 pm
Just want to clarify several things especially about DBC and the
purpose of the convention that this author has apparently misunderstood
what DBC and the conference is all about. I find it interesting how you
call this open minded person who rushed to make judgment about DBC. DBC
has not even announced the details of the conference yet but let me
tell you what it is about so far.
It is not about CI that DBC is fighting for, it is about providing
language access, ASL, that is, to Deaf babies, with or without CIs. The
research that Melissa provided is flawed since there numerous research
documents that outnumber Melissa’s proving that obtaining a visual
language does have benefits. Feel free to browse at
deafbilingualcoalition.com or deafbilingual.blogspot.com under the
category, resource. I can tell you some of the research findings that
using signs with babies have increased 12 points or more of I.Q.,
vocabulary, literacy, speech skils and so on.
Attending to the educational conference will be made visible to AG Bell
goers and to educate them about this side of the coin. There will be
keynote speakers who carry doctorate degrees and have studied in
bilingualism, workshops and sessions to educate the participants to
join hands with parents of Deaf babies. All parents are welcome and
unlike AG Bell charging a whooping 400 bucks for registration, DBC
doesn’t even charge a penny for registration! DBC is there to welcome
parents with open arms, not to fight. We just want to share the
information with them about the reality of Deaf babies’ needs.
Remember DBC is not being closed minded or against those who achieve
listening and speech, it is AG Bell who is being closed minded to the
idea of encouraging bilingual approach that is to use ASL as a first
language acquisition. I would recommend you to read the mission, goals
and purposes of DBC in their website more carefully and not to haste to
make quick false judgment. And another thing to remember is that not
all CI children are successful with AVT approach. What would you do
with them? Imagine if they have ASL as a safety net in the first place,
the it will make it more possible for them to bridge English more
effectively. Don’t we want that?
April 5, 2008 at 10:17 pm
Correction: Imagine if they have ASL as a safety net in the first
place, THEN it will make it more possible for them to bridge English
more effectively.
Rox
April 5, 2008 at 10:21 pm
Rachel, have you met successful people that were raised with the ASL or
bi-bi approach?
April 5, 2008 at 10:26 pm
Barb DiGi,
The problem that I have with DBC is that they’re not giving parents of
deaf children who know how to raise their deaf children with the AVT
approach properly by being dedicated and involved with their children’s
lives the option not to use ASL in their life. Just simply adding ASL
will not necessarily always improve their children’s lives because
there are parents who can have crappy ASL skills which will certainly
affect children’s language development.
Choosing to use ASL should be a personal choice, not a mandatory
choice.
April 5, 2008 at 10:30 pm
Rox,
I have not met any successful people who were raised with bi-bi
approach except for the ones on DeafRead. The ones who I have met in
person have very unintelligible speech.
David
April 5, 2008 at 10:33 pm
The comment #10 mirrors my personal observations and experience much
more closely than what you report. I think you suffer from sample bias
(failure to obtain representative cross section).
April 5, 2008 at 10:41 pm
To all who think I don’t acknowledge that not all deaf children have
uccesses with their CIs and AVT:
This is why I created Cochlear Implant Online, to inform parents of
deaf children with CIs how to raise their children successfully so that
their children do not end up being one of those “failures.” I’ve
provided a story written by my mother about her raising my sister and
me (http://cochlearimplantonline.com/index2.php?story) to acknowledge
parents that it takes a lot of hard work and dedication to raise their
deaf children with CIs. I’ve also provided a page about Auditory-Verbal
that explains how to raise deaf children with CIs with the AVT approach
uccessfully.
April 5, 2008 at 10:46 pm
Wondering,
My mother just provided a list of research. I will try to add research
information in my future blogs. Even though I don’t cite research often
on my blog, I’m speaking from my personal experiences.
April 5, 2008 at 10:53 pm
DBC is barely one year old as we just started to grow. DBC’s intention
is to share crucial information about the importance of bilingual
approach because not all CI children benefit from AVT. Your mentality
believes that adding ASL does not make a difference and this is the
problem. Well, I’ve got flash news for you, IT DOES! I am fluent in
both ASL and English and I tell you that it does like you tells us that
you as a CI wearer that it does work. I do take your word for it but
why couldnt you take mine for it? This is an example that a two way
treet is not functioning. Just keep in mind what works for you may not
always work for them.
There are parents who have developed ASL fluently as long as there is
ervice in their location that provides tremendous support. The problem
today is that there is a lack of ASL therapy services but that will
change someday since awareness is highly raised thanks to DBC. Choosing
ASL is not a personal choice but a language right for Deaf babies.
April 5, 2008 at 10:56 pm
Drats, there’s no edit button and I am geting tired..correction
I am fluent in both ASL and English and I tell you that it does like
you ARE TELLING us that you as a CI wearer that it does work.
mom2boys'
April 5, 2008 at 10:58 pm
Shel,
Please tell us more specifically about the children you teach who
received AVT as infants and toddlers and graduated from a program as
uch. I find that many quote a lot of info about how it just doesn’t
work, but they are not speaking of the same children and some now
adults that Rachel and others are discussing. We’re not on the same
page. Rachel is speaking about Auditory-Verbal Therapy under the
guidance of a certified AV therapist, high parental involvement,
mainstreamed since preschool, appropriately trained CI users/hearing
aid users, etc.
Barb Digi,
The research that Melissa provided is flawed since there numerous
research documents that outnumber Melissa’s proving that obtaining a
visual language does have benefits.
Ok how does the fact that you state that you have more documents than
Melissa make her research flawed. That’s like my son saying I have more
candy than you so I’m better?? It doesn’t equate.
The research cited is valid. If it’s not, prove it.
If you have not visited an AV program or with an AV child/family,
please do so. Then come back and let’s talk.
April 5, 2008 at 10:59 pm
Thanks for your blogs.
April 5, 2008 at 11:04 pm
“Your mentality believes that adding ASL does not make a difference and
this is the problem. Well, I’ve got flash news for you, IT DOES! I am
fluent in both ASL and English and I tell you that it does like you
tells us that you as a CI wearer that it does work. I do take your word
for it but why couldnt you take mine for it?”
I will take your word for it, but I won’t accept the fact that it works
for ALL deaf people like you said that AVT doesn’t work for all deaf
people. I’ve met deaf people who were raised with both ASL and Oral/AVT
approach, and their speech is unintelligible due to their heavy
reliance on ASL and/or have been unable to be mainstreamed in school.
April 5, 2008 at 11:13 pm
I have already proved it in my blog and in DBC blog. Go ahead and click
on the links in the right column under resources that focuses on ASL
and bilingual research.
Not only that there are many researchers justifying that having ASL as
a first language is in the best interest for Deaf babies but the
research quality is at presence as well. What Melissa has provided is
not sufficient and biased because three out of six research documents
came from the same person, Geers. Also you can see that 7 out of 37
apparently did not show success so it leaves me to question whatever
happens to them. I bet that if ASL was used along with AVT, the number
will be a lot higher to make it more 100 percent guaranteed. What’s
wrong with adding ASL? We all know that bilingual approach allows
children to develop better cognitive skills.
Please just do me a favor, go and read the links.
April 5, 2008 at 11:16 pm
Ok, Rachel, then would you support the idea of having both approaches,
AVT and ASL, for all Deaf babies/children? I am all for it.
There is actually a research showing that ASL facilitates speech. See
http://clerccenter.gallaudet.edu/products/perspectives/nov-dec97/asl.ht
ml
April 5, 2008 at 11:18 pm
mom2boys’ -
I really appreciate your wonderful advocacy on others’ and my blog.
Please keep it up!
April 5, 2008 at 11:30 pm
Oh one more thing that I find it very interesting that the very same
researcher, Geers said in the URL that I just provided about how ASL
facilitates speech:
Children with a solid language base can be taught aspects of spoken
English more easily than children without a language base. This may be
partly why deaf children of deaf parents often demonstrate a
ignificant linguistic advantage in spoken English over deaf children
of hearing parents (Geers & Schick, 1988).
However, it is not new for us Deafies to read that. I happen to fit in
this description since I have a Deaf family and that I’d acquired ASL
as my first language and my speech is still intelligible. Since there
are more hearing parents (but still not enough) are starting to sign
with their Deaf babies, the future research will say that “Deaf
children from signing families (instead of just Deaf families) will
demonstrate a significant linguistic advantage in spoken English over
deaf children of non-signing parents.”
I hope you will take a moment to read my blog about how ASL does not
hinder language development.
http://deafprogressivism.blogspot.com/2008/03/my-blog-post-is-in-respon
e-to.html
Thank you for the dialogue.
John
April 5, 2008 at 11:47 pm
Rachel, #23
Saying this:
“I’ve met deaf people who were raised with both ASL and Oral/AVT
reliance on ASL and/or have been unable to be mainstreamed in school.”
I guarantee you that 99% of those deaf people started off oral/AVT
approach and then started ASL way too late after their parents realize
their mistake. And I guarantee you that 99.9% of those parents are
hearing that was mis-”informed” by the so called deaf experts.
I am a bilingual and bicultural Deaf person and Rachel, you do not know
or understand the reality of being a bilingual or bicultural human
being. Either learn ASL like I did when I was 19 years old and then I
understood about visual language(ASL) or you’ll find yourself digging a
hole so deep and become a fool of yourself.
Be humble and learn by listening to everyone’s experience.
Elizabeth
April 5, 2008 at 11:51 pm
RE: Comment #27: For deaf children of Deaf parents, yes, because their
parents sign fluently in ASL. What about hearing parents? Their
acquisition of signed English, let alone ASL, will be far poorer. And
hearing people make up the vast majority of parents of deaf children.
Their children will have an incomplete, poor-quality model of manual
language.
Also, ASL is a valid, vibrant language, but it is NOT the language of
the country in which we live. Good skills in reading/writing English
will help someone who uses ASL bridge that gap a little bit, but, at
the end of the day, aural/oral English is the dominant mode of
discourse in our society. It may not be fair, but it’s life, and I
think we have to give children the best chance possible.
Finally, could we all please have an end to statements like “Are you
willing to state that you believe XYZ?” Throwing around such ultimatums
is not constructive to this dialogue, and it’s just plain not very
nice. Though I cannot speak for Rachel, I think the purpose of this
website is to provide information about one method of deaf education,
to show how it has worked for Rachel and others raised with AVT, and to
provide research and resources in support of that method, while
respecting the right of every PARENT (not any organization or cultural
group) to make choices for THEIR child.
As Voltaire said, “I disapprove of what you say, but I will defend to
the death your right to say it.” Let’s just keep it kind.
April 5, 2008 at 11:55 pm
John,
I’m happy for you that you enjoy being bilingual by using ASL and
English. If deaf people who use English and ASL feel they’re having a
uccessful life, I respect their decision and feelings.
Can’t you please accept the fact that I’m happy to be bilingual by
using English and French? If I’m happy with my life even though I don’t
use ASL, can’t you please respect that?
April 6, 2008 at 12:20 am
You know that we are talking about being bilingual between a Deaf
person and a hearing person, Visual and Verbal.
And these Deaf people are happy with their lives too but why you
continue to tell us the in this Deaf Reality blogsphere that you are
more “perfect” than us and you also seem to enjoy doing your sadistic
attitude message to prove that you “think” you are better.
If you are not “happy” with your life, don’t let it out to the Deaf
community or culture or on this blog.
I have nothing against CI, oral, etc but why do you continue to degrade
ASL as a language?…which you have no concept at all about ASL.
Can you please respect ASL? And leave us alone?
Jean Boutcher
April 6, 2008 at 1:22 am
Elizabeth says in #29:
As Voltaire said, “I disapprove of what you say, but I will defend
to the death your right to say it.”
Voltaire did not say that. He was misquoted. It was used by Evelyn
Beatrice Hall, writing under the pseudonym of Stephen G Tallentyre in
“The Friends of Voltaire” (1906) TO DESCRIBE Voltaire’s attitude.
Some people misunderstand Tallentyre’s statement.
April 6, 2008 at 3:46 am
Can I just say summat. No one is, neither am I, saying that you should
not have had yr implant. Or that the way you were raised wasn’t a
uccess. It clearly was, and for you it worked.
The fact, that your blog motivated people to actually respond with
comments, is a good thing. Cos, if anything, I wish Deafies and deafies
would be more forthwith in debating issues on a blog. The way hearies
do.
But I must clarify summat. You are interpreting comments as a personal
attack on you, when it’s not. I, for one, calling foul, over your use
of a feedback comment as an exmaple of open mindedness, to shore up
your own position.
I’m as bullheaded as they come, but I don’t misrepresent someone’s
comments. Mis-read maybe, misinterpret, maybe. But misrepresent. No.
That’s wrong.
April 6, 2008 at 3:56 am
Elizabeth,
It may well be that Rachel is blogging to provided a certain
perspective, and to provide some information about a specific issue.
The problem is in HOW it is done. This post for exmaple, is a rather
lame attempt, at using somebody’s feedback to illustrate an example of
how a Deaf person is being open minded.
I have already pointed out one issue, that renders Rachel’s claims
rather hollow.
I don’t care what the reality is. It doesn’t excuse some of the crap
that is used to justify a viewpoint. And few postings Rachel [and she
certainly isn't the only one] has done, are questionable.
To be fair, I wouldn’t accept the same crap from Deaf people either.
And I’ve seen my share there.
But to reiterate the point ocne again, how is a post that contians
words like: “So I am a dying breed of Deaf people.” illustrate
openmindedness?
If anything, this post is an example of a power base, that relies on
its esteem via the belittlement of someone else. THAT, I don’t accept.
And THAT, is what Rachel [and many oralies} failt o see!
Karen Mayes
April 6, 2008 at 7:16 am
Hmmm… I have been reading the comments…
Hmmm… to support Rachel, she has not said anything negative about ASL.
What I appreciate her is her willingness to listen and again she has
aid several times in the past postings, she started this blog as one
of the resources to educate the public about CIs.
Hmmm… to support some commenters, ASL DOES help give both hearing and
deaf babies a good headstart.
Hmmm… NOT all deaf babies are visual. Some are aural, depending on the
degree of hearing loss. It is a matter of time and training to become
more visual or more aural. Would be nice to have a balance. That is why
I like http://aslci.blogspot.com/ (the ASL-Cochlear Implant Community
blog.)
As Jean Boutcher points out in several of her comments all over the
DeafRead in the past, America is VERY monolingual which is a
disadvantage for the majority of us…hearing and deaf. So it is great
that Rachel has two languages (English and French) and it is great that
ome of us have two languages (English and ASL.) So the more exposure
to more cultures/languages, the more we appreciate each other, etc. We
don’t need to limit children only to one language. The world is rich
with cultures.
Again… the success of either deaf or/and hearing child depends on the
involvement of parents.
Rachel, like deaf people, hearing people do have some speech problems.
There are many factors such as background, education, parental
involvement, etc. that bely either success or failure of BOTH CI- and
nonCI- children.
I am just speaking out my opinion… right or wrong? Nope… just my
opinion, nothing more.
April 6, 2008 at 7:48 am
Oral/AVT is not an approach. Oral is an approach. AVT is an approach.
Cherylfrom MA
April 6, 2008 at 7:57 am
agreed with John, comment #31—respect ASL and leave US alone…we the
Deaf are human….Melissa & Rachel, get it?????? WE ALL ARE
HUMAN….PERIOD!!!!!!!!!!!!! end of discussion
April 6, 2008 at 8:12 am
I see some of us are getting heated up. Remember, it is all opinions…
we need to learn to agree to disagree.
Even evolution is a theory. Creation is a theory. So forth. What works
for one does not always work for another. When the emotions pop up,
things get distorted and negative comments start flying.
One person (who is becoming influential in DBC and I won’t name that
person) mentioned to me long time ago that the languages were full of
ymbols, wide open to many interpretations.
All right, today is sunny…so have a good day.
April 6, 2008 at 8:24 am
You will not get Rachel or me or others who share our views to agree
with you that adding ASL to a deaf baby with a CI is the way to go. I
do not agree. If you were right that deaf children are harmed by AVT,
then I wouldn’t know the several hundred whom I’ve known over the years
who are thriving. That doesn’t mean that I do not respect that you have
a different point of view. I also believe that those raised with ASL in
the deaf culture can lead very happy and successful lives. BUT, I have
been involved in education of deaf children both personally and
professionally for over 20 years now. I have lived it personally,
meeting many children who have used all of the approaches, and I have
written many articles for which I have researched the options. The
children I’ve seen who have developed excellent English language skills
and clear speech are the AV ones. We chose the AV approach early on for
Rachel because of the many children we met in all the approaches while
doing our research.
The papers I cited are only a few of what I have. So, you can cite your
research, and I can cite mine. We can each state that the other’s is
flawed. I believe as strongly in AV as you do in ASL that the AVT
approach, which, by definition, does not include sign, is the way to go
for deaf children whose parents are willing to make the necessary
commitment to the approach. I have seen a 95+% rate with this. I
incerely doubt that the kids you see in the deaf schools have been
raised with the AVT approach the way that mine were. There are way too
many therapists out there claiming to be AV who are not.
Open-minded deaf person is correct. Times are changing, and they’re
changing rapidly because of the CI. What was true for those raised
orally 20 years ago absolutely does not translate to how it is for deaf
babies born today. Deaf schools are closing, and more and more children
are being mainstreamed from the start without ASL. This is a fact. You
can fight it, but you can’t turn back the tide.
You ask Rachel to respect you. Nowhere did she or I say that we don’t
respect you or that we don’t believe that you and others who make the
choices that you do can’t lead productive lives. What you will have to
accept, though, is that we feel as strongly about AV as you do about
your DBC. It seems as if you will sling all sorts of accusations as
long as we continue to disagree with you. We are not doing the same,
though. Being respectful means agreeing to disagree and to debate
respectfully, not slinging accusations because others don’t agree with
you.
April 6, 2008 at 8:49 am
Tony, I posted Open-Minded Deaf Person’s comment because I wanted to
hare a deaf person’s unusual viewpoint. How many people who are deaf
and were raised with ASL have a viewpoint like his on DeafRead? I’m
assuming none. If I’m wrong, please share their blog. So, why is it bad
to read his perspective? It’s good to hear all kinds of perspective
views. The only perspective I’ve seen from the deaf ASL community is
that ASL is extremely important and/or is not fond of CIs.
His saying “So I am a dying breed of Deaf people.” is just his personal
feelings about the deaf community. He’s not attacking anyone.
April 6, 2008 at 8:54 am
To open-minded Deaf person,
“It’s waste of energy, money and time for people to go to Deaf
Bilingual Coalition Convention to HARASS AGB people” Where did u get
that info?? we harrassed them???? not very true…you need to fix it &
correct it….DBC in California was sucessed–peaceful rally…and we all
aren’t wasting our energy–no way….we will not GIVE UP as you
predicted…Thanks
April 6, 2008 at 9:05 am
Karen,
As always, I appreciate your comments. You’re absolutely right that
PARENTAL INVOLVEMENT is the KEY to success. Because I see that your
children are doing well with the bi-bi approach, I respect you.
It’s very true that people who hear normally do have speech issues. I
have a good friend at my college who hears normally and has speech
issues.
April 6, 2008 at 9:10 am
“Hmmm… NOT all deaf babies are visual. Some are aural, depending on the
more visual or more aural. ”
This is very true. My sister is definitely one of those who’s not
visual. When she was younger, she always preferred to listen to someone
reading a story than reading on her own. Plus, she cannot read lips at
all. My mother tried to teach her to read lips so that she could have
that advantage when her CI is off, and it doesn’t work. Every child has
their own unique learning styles. That’s why we can’t say that one
method works for all people. One of the neatest things about deafness
is that we have many different methods to choose from to fit our
lifestyle the best.
April 6, 2008 at 9:20 am
Mom, well said.
Please state where I said in my blog entries that I’m more “perfect”
than you and I think that I’m better, except for the bus story which I
understand that the statements that I made were disrespectful to the
deaf community, and I do intend not to post an entry like that one
again in the future.
Is it really fair for me not to be able to talk about my being happy
and confident as a deaf person who uses a CI and why I’m thankful to my
parents while you can talk about your passions in the deaf culture and
why you enjoy being bilingual by using ASL and English?
a deafie
April 6, 2008 at 9:39 am
Do you have research that proves that some deaf babies are not visual?
I would like to see it as I wonder how it is done especially with very
young babies to determine if they are visual or aural.
How much does it cost to go in to have AVT therapy? Why is AVT so dead
et against using ASL? How can ASL hurt AVT therapy? Then the parents
and professionals tell the deaf child not to use ASL which leads the
child to feel that ASL is a forbidden language to use and that ASL is
only for deaf children who cannot talk. In turn, it hurts the deaf
community because the deaf child and professionals/parents are dead set
against using ASL and when the deaf child grows up, they are tempted to
learn ASL but are constrained by the deep set belief that their parents
put on them and may be afraid to learn ASL in fears that they have
literally failed AVT.
This is why DBC wants to work with AVT to let parents know that ASL is
an accessible language, its nothing to be afraid of, ASL will not
destroy speech/AVT tools, it is a supplement in communication,
feelings, moods and other things that a deaf child can utilize. I have
met some deaf children who use ASL and have excellent speech skills and
can talk on the phone and they never used AVT therapy. It also aids in
ocial skills and cognitive thinking and expressive skills. Too many
deaf children who were raised in NO-ASL environment tend to have poor
expressive skills and critical thinking skills. ASL does and can
provide them with those skills.
Rachel and Melissa, we are asking you to listen to us and see where we
are trying to say. Let’s debate and listen and share our pros/cons
instead of being so one-sided on this issue.
An example I thought of after sending my last post -
In my county’s public school system, for years there was only a TC
program for deaf children in one of the mainstream schools. Then, 4 1/2
years ago, the HI department decided to open an oral program at a
different school. They started in 2003 with 5 students and one resource
teacher. The kids were all mainstreamed most of the day. Today, there
are 2 children left in that TC program, but they had to hire a second
resource teacher for the school with the oral program because the
numbers were mushrooming.
As I said, the tide is turning.
April 6, 2008 at 9:45 am
One more thing — DBC and the deaf community has a dream that all deaf
people can be united in one large group using ASL, have good speech and
all those things. This is part of Deafhood. AG Bell organization and
AVT are trying to fight against us in forbidding ASL, this needs to
top right now. Can we bridge together in combining all of these
together, seeing that all of the tools will work together and we will
be a more stronger community this way. Too many parents, professionals
and deaf people are so frustrated with one another, it is like we are
at a war and it needs to stop right there!
April 6, 2008 at 9:52 am
TC programs do not work well because they sign and voice at the same
time which can make it very confusing to the deaf children. There needs
to be a bilingual model where ASL is used primiarly alone and then
English not at the same time.
A bilingual model will work wonders for a deaf child because they can
learn ASL with critical/thinking skills, expressive skills, social
kills while at the same time learn to read/talk in English.
April 6, 2008 at 10:21 am
Deafie,
My child has great critical thinking and expressive skills and way too
many social skills :) and uses only spoken language.
Again, AV works just like it is. I don’t see a need for adding ASL.
It’s not a war. Just don’t say that we need to change something that
doesn’t need to be changed.
Again, visit an AV program. See it all for yourself before you try to
change it.
April 6, 2008 at 10:25 am
a deafie,
“DBC and the deaf community has a dream that all deaf people can be
united in one large group using ASL, have good speech and all those
things. This is part of Deafhood. AG Bell organization and AVT are
trying to fight against us in forbidding ASL, this needs to stop right
now. Can we bridge together in combining all of these together, seeing
that all of the tools will work together and we will be a more stronger
community this way. ”
It would be nice for the deaf community to agree on one method, but,
unfortunately, one method does not fit all. We should be fortunate to
have different method options (ASL, Oral, AVT, Cued Speech, and SEE) to
choose from that best fit our own lifestyle. Being part of deafhood
does not necessarily mean that we all should know ASL. Everyone should
be able to experience deafhood in their own terms. I would read
deafutahhiker’s blog about his opinion on deafhood –
http://deafutahhiker.vox.com/library/post/my-understanding-of-deafhood.
html
Here’s a snippet from a comment that I left on his blog -
“I am certainly experiencing deafhood, but it’s just different. The
difference is that I attend CI conventions and events, and I have deaf
friends who use CIs. We all share our experiences about being deaf, but
our experiences are just different from those who were raised without
CIs and used ASL. ”
Choosing to be part of the ASL deaf community should be a personal
choice, not a mandatory choice for all deaf people.
For your other questions, either my mom or I will back to you later. I
have to head out.
April 6, 2008 at 11:00 am
All I can say is that I am so blessed to have both ASL and good oral
kills in my life. I grew up without ASL and I was miserable. Now, I
have a healthy balance of both and I noticed that my English skills
improved since becoming fluent in ASL.
All deaf children should be given this healthy balance of both. I dont
know why many of you are so against ASL. It is puzzling.
April 6, 2008 at 11:22 am
Barb…those children are just like the children you seem to support so
much. What you dont understand that AVT programs have failed numerous
deaf children and I see what happens to them. You can stick your head
in the sand. Your choice.
April 6, 2008 at 11:25 am
Shel…can you give us more data or stats on the AVT programs that have
failed numerous deaf children. Are they truly AVT programs or are they
oral programs? Head’s out of the sand. Just wanting to know.
All deaf children should be given language. That’s what parents of AV
children are doing, Shel. I don’t know why many of you are so against
giving a child language. It’s puzzling.
April 6, 2008 at 11:36 am
To respond to comment #29, please refer to #19. Also read about Sweden
model that they use both AVT and natural sign language showing how CI
kids are more successful having both languages rather than growing up
using an oral approach only. There is a statistic for that but I need
to look for it. For starters, you can read the book called “Educating
Deaf Children Bilingually” by Mahshie.
April 6, 2008 at 11:39 am
A deafie,
We have heard you, but, again, we disagree. We believe based on on our
personal experiences, on those whom we have met over the years, and on
the research that adding ASL in the early critical language learning
years will hinder a deaf child’s acquisition of spoken language. Again,
we are also talking about today, not 20 years ago. Your experiences
with the technology of yesterday are not relevant today.
Your solution to all of us getting along is to have us agree that your
way is the right way. That will not happen any more than Republicans or
Democrats will suddenly decide to just say that the other is correct,
and the whole country will suddenly agree on everything. How would you
feel if I told you that we should all just agree that AVT is the way to
go and that we can all just get along if you would agree with me?
This is a passionate issue for all of us, and, as the parent of two
deaf children who would have been harmed by the so-called experts who
told me I must be signing with Rachel when she was little, I feel very
passionate to speak up against those who would have denied my girls the
opportunities and successes that they have had. So, the debate will
continue, but, as I have said, the tide is turning because there are
more and more kids out there who are realizing success with CIs and AVT
as my girls have. CI technology is continuing to improve with new
implants and processors about every 5 years, and the age of
implantation is continuing to drop. These kids do not need ASL. The
older ones still do not need or desire ASL. I get that you feel
threatened by that, but it is the reality that Open-Minded Deaf Person
ees. You can fight, call it a “war,” etc, but the fact is that the
number of deaf children learning ASL and entering the deaf culture is
continuing to drop and will continue to do so. Why is this? – Because
hearing parents meet kids like mine, have conversations with them, see
firsthand their mastery of the English language and speech, learn about
their academic successes, and that is what they want for their
children. They want this because the vast majority of this world is a
hearing and speaking world, which they want their kids to be a part of
with ease, and they want their children to be able to take advantage of
all that the hearing world has to offer.
April 6, 2008 at 11:41 am
To comment #52..
What??? Shel, I would suggest you read my comments more carefully. You
obviously misunderstood my comments. I have never advocated Deaf
children to grow up without ASL. Please don’t jump to conclusions about
what I believe in. You said that you are so blessed to have both ASL
and good oral skills in my life. We are on the same page, duh! Why do
you think I am involved in DBC in the first place? Are you talking to
the right person?
Tara
April 6, 2008 at 11:45 am
“I have not met any successful people who were raised with bi-bi
person have very unintelligible speech.”
Rachel, do you equal success with intelligible speech? In that case, I
must be very unsuccessful despite being in college and having strong
language skills, academic skills, many friends, and a wonderful family.
Oh wait, so are my Deaf friends with untelligible speech who are
erving in the peace corps, who are studying for their Ph.D’s, who are
traveling the world, who own their own businesses, and so on. Speech
equals success? What kind of success, exactly?
April 6, 2008 at 11:46 am
Melissa, ASL does not hinder language development! You must be the same
mom who left the comment in Deaf Chip since what you said is exactly
what was said there. You are entitled to your belief but dont go around
preading this myth by using different names. I have already posted my
blog about this topic how it is a myth since there are research
documents proving that.
“ASL does not hinder language development!”
April 6, 2008 at 12:00 pm
mom2boys, since many deaf people are originally placed into an oral
program (I’m not referring specifically to AVT programs, I know they
are different), where they are to learn a language that is not
completely accessible, they often fail and are placed into a signing or
ASL program. Why the English language is not completely accessible,
I’ll try to explain… Even with hearing aids, cochlear implants (I know
it’s improving so that it’s better now), or whatever assistive devices,
ome deaf people may miss those S or F sounds that are quieter. This
leaves deaf children in a guessing game in trying to decipher a
language that has evolved based on people with perfect hearing. Can you
imagine your whole life only catching 80%, 60% or even less of the
world around you? Many (not all) of these “oral failures” (for lack of
a better term) grow up with low self-esteem and look back and naturally
want to advocate for ASL and not for oral programs (including AVT)
because we don’t want kids to go through the same thing we did.
Speaking of oral failures, I’ve met thousands of them. Literally,
thousands. I’ve met ONE “ASL failure”. One.
ASL is a completely visual language that doesn’t rely on any ability to
hear. That means your child will understand everything that is signed,
and won’t have to play this guessing game. To turn your question
around, I don’t know why so many of you are against giving a child a
fully accessible language. It’s puzzling, indeed.
Now, you might assume that because your child has a CI and is in the
AVT program, that he/she may understand everything that is said to
him/her. This is a very dangerous assumption to make, and is the same
assumption of many parents of oral (including AVT) failures. Even I
passed the audiology tests with 100% accuracy without lipreading, but I
threw out my hearing aids because I was tired of missing out.
April 6, 2008 at 12:07 pm
Barb,
I’ve never seen DeafChip. I always post as Melissa. I don’t try to hide
my identity. You are calling my opinion a myth. This is intolerance. I
am not spreading a myth. My belief is that I am spreading the truth. I
have seen firsthand evidence of this as well as research, some of which
I have posted. You are voicing your opinion, not a fact.
April 6, 2008 at 12:13 pm
Melissa, it is good to know that you always post as Melissa. It is
obvious that you and I both have seen things differently. I have seen
that there are CI failures but success who are raised in bilingual
environment and you have seen otherwise. I just hope that you are open
minded to read my blog that ASL does not hinder language development
which is true.
CANDY
April 6, 2008 at 12:51 pm
ASL does not ALWAYS hinder oral development. That much I can say. ASL
is beneficial to some. ASL apparently does not work for some.
If anyone came up to me and say something like, your child will never
peak clearly again if you encourage your child to use ASL, I will say
this is BS, IF my child has residual hearing. But if my child is deaf,
I’d probably agree. With a C.I. it is totally a whole different
perspective. We can’t compare in this way.
But, we’re all forgetting something here. Obviously C.I. requires
certain methods to be used in place in order for C.I. to be successful.
What DBC is saying to these C.I. is that they should add ASL to AVT,
and that is where there’s a conflict.
Valid research studies should show official statistics from the
research that has been proven. I still don’t think there is any
research out there that shows that AVT works well with ASL. AVT is
obviously not the same method of “speech therapy” that most of us went
through when we were in school. We never had speech therapy at home.
AVT involves the parents to continue that therapy at home and from what
I’ve seen so far, it is totally different.
When one is trying to convince parents that they should add ASL in
addition to AVT, you’re asking the parents to reduce the valuable time
of AVT (by adding ASL), thus running the risk of their child becoming
C.I. failures.
I DO NOT think ASL impedes speech. And if it does, it is probably
because there wasn’t enough hearing in the first place to sustain
peech. That is just my opinion. I find it interesting that people
think they can say things about something they’re not fully aware of
all the itty bitty details. I know I have a lot more to learn about
C.I. I’ve also met many profoundly deaf people who have some speech
that is passable and that’s due to intensive speech training, but it
does not work as well as it does for hoh. There’s so many variables to
consider.
Usually when you get some technology or toy from a box and if you don’t
follow the manufacturer’s direction, you’re screwed! Who are we to tell
parents of C.I. child what to do?
If they want to learn ASL later on in life, good for them. If they
don’t, leave them alone.
April 6, 2008 at 12:55 pm
I think many deaf professionals or paraprofessionals who work in the
chool system (where there are mainstream program for deaf/hoh kids)
are seeing a lot of CI failures and they think it is the norm. There’s
a reason why they are seeing so many failures there because if there is
a successful C.I. Child, that child would not have the need to be at
these schools where the C.I. failures are in.
April 6, 2008 at 1:03 pm
You see, we are willing to make this bridge to work with you all in
accepting CI/AVT and then please work with us in accepting ASL. I don’t
ee this happening yet and yet this is causing a split among us.
ASL comes naturally to us Deaf people, we know how it is for us, we
hould be the ones who know what works for us as we are the ONES that
go through it, not hearing people. Hearing people like parents,
professionals and teachers claim that they know what to do with us deaf
people and that their answers are much better than us. We are trying to
ay that ASL is the answer and that whatever you came up with CI/AVT,
we are willing to take this. I don’t see this happening at all. All I
hear is that CI is the best tool, AVT is the best tool and ASL is not
needed here. You don’t think our voice is important, don’t you?? I
don’t think so and this is rather unfortunate…….
April 6, 2008 at 1:09 pm
Hold on Folks,
One way to resolve this issue is to have all of us (both sides) to go
to Congress and demand to have a “Language Commission Study for the
Deaf”. A three or four year study by “non-bias” group (Not AGBell, AVT,
Gallaudet, etc) to find out if “Oral only method” or “ASL only method”
or English only method or Bilingual method – ASL/English(reading and
writing) or ASL and oral combine method should be adopted for all Deaf
babies and children in schools.
And also study why many deaf people have English language problems. Was
it 1880 Milan’s demand to banned sign language logical or mistake in
begin with?
The commission also should study about Alexander Graham Bell’s
promotion to eliminate Deaf teachers, sign language, his effort to ban
Deaf people to marry other Deaf people by asking Congress to past such
law.
Should we have the Federal government to establish a Commission to
resolve all this bias ideology about Deaf people’s right to a proper
Let’s get this kind of information out there:
ASL failures versus ASL successful children
AVT failures versus AVT successful children
CI failures versus CI successful children
And then we can see which methodology works the best for deaf children
ee the percentage and then we’ll see who is right and who is wrong.
Is this possible to have this kind of research?
California Grandma
April 6, 2008 at 1:25 pm
My gut feeling tells me that the kind of information we all need is
going to be a long time coming, if ever. However, maybe we can begin to
collect the information. But keep in mind “one size does not fit all”
and never will. There are many educational theories that are used for
all children depending on who is teaching it and the population to whom
they are teaching. I don’t think we can ever ask that one method be the
ultimate answer as there are too many variables. Since we are human
beings and not just an object, we can never assure that only one
variable has changed. We can however endeavor to learn, while trying
our best to do no harm.
April 6, 2008 at 1:29 pm
I know what the answer will be! Which methods will work for deaf
children? There will never be ONE method that will work for all
deaf/hoh kids. Too many variables involved! Why is there a need for one
ize fits all ideology?
April 6, 2008 at 1:36 pm
Thanks, Candy. Well said.
April 6, 2008 at 1:46 pm
Melissa,
Thank you for pointing me in the direction of articles about the
uccess of CIs. When I was born, I wasn’t qualified to get a CI since I
had too much hearing. I have lost some hearing since and know that
people are now getting CIs even with severe losses.
I use two aids, manage well one-on-one with people and in groups if
there isn’t much background noise. I lip-read and use digital aids.
I’m curious to know if there’s any information about what I could
expect if I decided to get a CI.
Here are some questions I have:
If I were to get a CI, would my speech become worse since the sounds
I’d be hearing are electronic (for lack of a better word)?
How long would it take for me to “re-wire” my brain to be able to use a
CI? I’m in my early 20s.
I have been able to use a telephone on limited occasions, but ever
ince VCO came out– I prefer that. I’m able to follow the words I hear
as long as I know the topic. Does this mean that my brain is already
wired to hear and a CI would be a good fit?
Sorry for the many questions, I’m just curious. I asked my parents why
they never got a CI for me after my hearing became worse– they said I
was doing just fine with aids. Also, they thought it would be better to
wait until the “technology” had improved more.
Thanks,
Older and Wiser
April 6, 2008 at 1:50 pm
Upon reading the article and the comments. I felt the need to respond.
It appears that people here are referring to two different schools of
thought when it comes to programs that attempt to teach deaf people how
to speak and both of these schools involve the use of CIs as well. This
was also information that I learned on this blog by asking questions
and learning from other comments on previous articles.
The first school of thought is basically the “old school” concept where
peechreading or lipreading was heavily emphasized in the oral process
where we used vision and sense of touch along with a hearing aid to aid
the residual hearing or a CI in the later stages of the “old school
concept”. In speech training exercises, as an example, we would sit one
on one with teachers and use our hands to feel the sound tones by
placing them on the throats and noses of our teachers and then our own,
while listening with our hearing aids.
This is where many of us know for a fact that there were many deaf
people, that were unsuccessully able to pick up on this and thus lead
to low English levels because too much time was given to these training
efforts and not enough time on other importants aspects of schooling,
uch as English.
It is this “old school” concept that has led more deaf people, in my
opinion, to the protest of many deaf people and they beleive ASL should
have been utilized. In this “old school” approach, I went through this
myself and was fortunately able to learn to speak and read lips quite
well. However, I have also stated that I think that this process would
have been easier for me if ASL were included, and I strongly support
the use of ASL for this.
This school of thought has led to many more failures than there are
uccesses and no research documentation on this particular matter will
convince me otherwise.
The second school of thought, which I am referring to as AVT here, is
an entirely different process here. What I have learned lately, is that
this is basically the equivalency of teaching a hearing child to speak.
It is strictly and solely based on listening skills and these AVT
tudents learn to speak on their own based on listening skills. It is
basically, as someone put it to me like this in a response, a hearing
child sitting on a fathers knee and listens to his stories and picks up
on that to learn to speak over time. They do not use any visual tools
whatsoever, they do not even learn to speechread or lipread, its 100%
auditory based. That being the case, I can now understand why ASL is
not needed for the AVT process, as it would be the equivalency of
requiring a hearing child to learn ASL as he or she learns to speak.
It important to emphasize that I am not supporting AVT, but nor am I
against it, simply because I still do not have enough facts. I’m just
tating it as how I understand AVT to work.
That does leave me with a HUGE remaining question, because I was
brought up the “old school” way, I went to college with deaf people
that were brought up the “old school” way, I still hang out with many
deaf people that were brought up the “old school” way, of which nearly
all of them now use ASL as they learned it later in life.
I have no personal experience whatsoever with anyone was that was
brought up the “new school” way, simply because I am much older than
they are and do not personally know anyone in this area so I cannot use
my personal experience to base any facts to make a judgement on this. I
will not rely on most of the research documentations either simply
because they are not unbiased and most of the research I have seen are
from people that I beleive have spent their entire careers pursuing a
ingle aspect, such as Geers (whom has done most of the research that
has been linked here) being in the oral education aspect probably her
entire career and she isn’t going to simply suddenly flip the coin and
ay “ahh its ok to use ASL”.
While I can understand how AVT, as it is explained, does not need to
utlize the use of ASL, my question is “does it actually work for the
ignificant majority of the AVT students? One research document showed
it working for more than 50%, which could be 50.1% for all I know and
that number is not good enough for me. If it were working, for lets say
90% of these students, then I would have absolutely no qualms about ASL
not being used. If it is 50.1%, then it is a big problem for me and a
more detailed set of criteria for CI qualification needs to be set
forth in order to increase this percentage.
Even if the AVT approach has a 90% success rate, I still advocate the
use of ASL being utilized in baby signs before the AVT process is fully
utilized on the student. I still think its important that these deaf
AVT students are at least made aware of the deaf culture so that they
can be exposed to it and be given an opportunity to bask themselves in
it, because I know for myself, I wish i knew about it at an earlier age
instead of finding out about it in college.
Lastly, I think the only way that this debate can be put to rest, is to
have an unbiased research document that looks into this and such a team
to put this together would be experts in ALL areas of deaf education
and that includes both in oral, AVT, and ASL fields.
April 6, 2008 at 1:52 pm
Candy, you say…
“There will never be ONE method that will work for all deaf/hoh kids.
Too many variables involved! Why is there a need for one size fits all
ideology?”
Good question!
Back in 1880 Milan, Why didn’t they just adopt oral philosophy instead
of eliminated sign language completely?
Was AGBell’s oral only method a “one size fits all ideology” in the
DBC never have said that we should have ONE method that will work for
all deaf kids.
It is the babies’s need to have a communicative method at start to
18-24 months until they develop their vocal chord to start learning
peech. And the only method is sign language which AGBell completely
disregard this concept that does more harm than good.
Why do some people continue to blow this concept out of proportion.
Can some people have concerns for a baby and want to help?
April 6, 2008 at 2:06 pm
Good questions, Wondering. I’ll provide what information I can, but
Melissa has far more experience than I as a Cochlear Awareness Network
Volunteer (I’m just a newbie with that program), so I hope she’ll chime
in as well.
The first step would be to contact your closest Cochlear Implant Center
for a candidacy evaluation to see if you qualify for a cochlear
implant. (This link will help you find the nearest clinic:
http://www.cochlearamericas.com/Support/38.asp). Without knowing your
audiogram or your hearing history, I can’t tell you exactly how a CI
might work for you, or give you specifics as to what you could expect.
Your questions are great, though, so I’d suggest printing them out and
bringing them with you to your appointment. An informed patient is an
empowered patient, so make sure you get all of the information you need
to make the best decision for you!
Anecdotal evidence from CI users who received their implants as adults
tells me this:
1. Past hearing history matters! If an adult CI candidate has kept
those listening and spoken language “pathways” open in their brain, as
it sounds like you have, their results are usually better because the
aural sense is not entirely foreign to their brain.
2. You mentioned that you rely on lipreading and have problems in
background noise. A cochlear implant most likely will help with this.
Many adult CI recipients find that their CI aids in comprehension of
words that are hard to see on the lips (i.e. mat vs. pat vs. bat) and
they find themselves relying on hearing rather than speechreading more
and more as their experience with the implant grows. Cochlear implants
also have specific programming options that allow you to “focus” the
microphone to pick out the most important sounds in a noisy
environment. For example, if you are in a crowded restaurant, you can
witch to a program that ups the volume of noises coming from in front
of you (i.e., the speaker across the table), but lowers the volume on
all the ambient noise coming from around you.
3. Telephone use. You very well may be able to use the telephone again
with greater success. Many CI users can, but again, individual results
vary. How can you get the best use out of your cochlear implant? Get
the necessary follow-up! Frequent mappings, sessions with an AVT,
at-home computer programs for listening practice, wearing the implant
all waking hours, etc. all of these things will increase your enjoyment
and success with a cochlear implant.
4. The time it takes is very individual, based on various factors
mentioned in #3.
5. Your speech would sound different to you, but just different, not
worse. In fact, because the cochlear implant provides improved access
to high frequency sounds HAs can miss (/s/, /f/, etc.), you might find
that your speech improves and that you are able to recognize
differences in prosody and intonation that may not have been accessible
through your hearing aids.
Best of luck as you make this important decision. Questions like yours
are what this site is here for, so ask away!
April 6, 2008 at 2:15 pm
Candy,
thanks for your post.
I accept ASL. I don’t believe there is a parent here who doesn’t accept
ASL. The split you speak of is a split you are creating. There are not
AVT families segregating themselves. We accept deafness, and it just so
happens that deafness is diverse. We have chosen to take a different
path, and it works for us.
The last time I checked I gave birth to my deaf child. My child is
being raised in a hearing family. I am the ONE who knows him. I am the
ONE who raises him. I am the ONE who provides him with what he needs. I
am the ONE who loves him unconditionally. I am the ONE who wants what’s
best for him. I am the ONE. You are not. So you can tell that the mama
bears get defensive when you insinuate that we are harming our
children. We are not claiming anything. I do know that when my child
was diagnosed with hearing loss that we looked at ALL aspects of
deafness. We chose a way for a child, and give it 100%. It works for
him.
April 6, 2008 at 2:20 pm
Barb..I apologize. I was referring to Melissa. I got the names all
mixed up.
Melissa, I have worked with deaf children from Deaf families and
hearing families who sign. Those children usually perform better
academically than those who come from non-signing families because ASL
utilizes their conginitive process thoughts early on. To say that ASL
hinders oral skills is a myth and yes, u are spreading it, Melissa with
your reliance on research that support the oral-only approach. I have
who also have pretty good oral skills. Their writing skills are far
uperior than mine because they had full and complete access to
language during their critical years of language development.
Also, like someone else state, AVT doesnt guarantee 100% success with
all children due to the spoken language not being fully accessible to
all deaf children. It is still putting these children at risk for
language deprivation. I dont know why u continue to listen to those
hearing experts who dont know what it is like to be deaf and what it is
like to be constantly be in an extremely restrictive environment.
The question is..would hearing children be put in an environment where
there are risks of them not being able to pick up language? I think
not! Yet, u support that for deaf children.
I have seen what happens to those when AVT failed them. No, they are
not the “failures”…it is not the children’s responsibility to determine
whether a approach fails or succeeds for them. It is the responsililty
of the parents and the educators. When the program fails these
children, the professionals and parents are held accountable, not the
children. By calling the children the “failures” show lack of
responsibility on the parents and professional’s part.
April 6, 2008 at 2:29 pm
Mom2boys,
My mom said the same thing about my deaf brother and I as you did. That
he knows us, that she knows what’s best for us and all that. She put
us in an oral-only environment in the educational setting. After 20
years, she admitted she was wrong and really didnt know what our needs
were. Our needs were the need for ASL for full and complete access to
information and language which we were denied growing up.
Everyone calling me the “oral success” and my brother the “oral
failure”. Do u know what kind of damage that does to children when
people label them like that? Never ever call children “failures” just
because a system failed them. They have feelings too.
April 6, 2008 at 2:31 pm
I’m not clear about something. Do you work with deaf children with deaf
parents and deaf children with hearing parents who sign OR do you work
with deaf children who were AV? It’s unclear. Are these former AV
children or oral children? These are two different categories.
April 6, 2008 at 2:37 pm
Hi,
Please remember that my child has been aided( and now uses both a
hearing aid and cochlear implant) since a young age and received one on
one Auditory Verbal Therapy for 4 years. So, I will say that what you
peak of is a bit different from my experience with my own child. I
think one of the major points Melissa and Rachel are making with this
ite and blog is that AV today is vastly different from the Oral
programs of the past.
….and I am not calling children failures????
April 6, 2008 at 2:45 pm
Shel, look at the comment by “older and wiser” she does make a good
point. Do read her comment.
April 6, 2008 at 3:10 pm
Wondering: Sorry, I forgot one thing! You also talked about “waiting
for technology to improve.” The vast majority of CI upgrades are to the
programming software and the external processor. The internal part
rarely changes. Most of the manufacturers have “trade-in” programs so
their users can upgrade whenever new products come out. Looking into
what the various manufacturers’ plans are should be a factor in
choosing an implant brand if you do indeed decide to go that route. I
will say that the longer you wait, no matter how good the new
technology is, it’s may be less useful to you because more time has
elapsed without hearing.
April 6, 2008 at 3:18 pm
Older and Wiser -
Your post is very perceptive. There is an old school and new school.
AVT for kids today is not at all what the oral approach was years ago.
My girls are totally deaf without their CIs, but with them they not
only hear across the frequencies at an average of 20 – 25 decibels, but
they are also able to discriminate all the speech sounds. Thus, they
learned language naturally through their hearing and communication
orally through their hearing. This is very different from what went on
years ago. We immersed Rachel and Jessica in spoken language, and they
were able to hear it and learn it as normal hearing children do.
Learning oral language visually, on the other hand, is a totally
different story. I have known oral deaf people who were raised this
way, and I can tell you that they struggle in ways that my girls never
do. CI children not only hear and comprehend speech well, but also they
develop clear speech and natural voice quality, which is clear evidence
of how well they are hearing because they reproduce what they hear, not
what they see.
April 6, 2008 at 3:20 pm
Elizabeth did a good job of answering your questions. Adults who had
residual hearing and so benefitted from hearing aids and continued to
use them to communicate orally are often among the better CI users
because the auditory pathways to their brain have not atrophied. In
addition to Elizabeth’s suggestions, I’d add to visit
http://www.cihear.com/ . It also includes a link to a listserv of adult
CI users, who would be a great group to answer your questions based on
their own experiences.
April 6, 2008 at 3:24 pm
Very well said!! Thanks!!
(Deaf–I raised in a hearing family, grew up oral, SEE/TC, PSE then
last, learned ASL…ASL fits me…my answer is ASL first–not last)
April 6, 2008 at 3:26 pm
Another point – Rachel is almost 21, and she was among the first 200
children in the U.S. to receive a CI in 1989. At age 2 1/2, she was
also one of the youngest at the time because the first 200 included
children ages 2 through 17. Thus, there simply aren’t that many
implanted as babies or toddlers who have hit the older grades yet.
Therefore, these AVT failures that you cite either weren’t in
legitimate AV programs or likely were not implanted as babies or
toddlers. Rachel was the first child in New England to get an implant,
and when we moved to Atlanta, she was the first child her AV center had
ever seen with an implant. Now, 85% – 90% of the children at the center
have CIs. As I said, things are changing.
April 6, 2008 at 4:21 pm
OK, you’re now weirding me out a bit. It seems as if you are saying
that the DBC has a political agenda: to take away a parent’s right to
choose a language for their child unless it is ASL.
Since stats do show that about 97% of all deaf babies are born to
hearing parents, and you say that all parents must provide ASL as the
primary language to the deaf child…..then I would say that 97% of those
hearing parents are not proficient in ASL and some would never learn
ASL. So then what? How are you going to implement this?
Part of the reason we chose AVT for our son is because everyone in his
family, church, and community is hearing and use English. It’s what we
know. It’s how we feel we can best provide him language. I also have an
18 month hearing son who has never seen sign. He is now developing
poken language naturally just like his 5 year old deaf brother did.
You believe that ASL is the natural language of the deaf. I believe
that whatever language a family uses with the child is his or her
natural language. You have to remember that we didn’t just give our son
hearing aids and say, “oh, you can hear now, you go get’em!” Just as if
we were teaching our son to sign, we have taught him to listen and
peak. I believe wholeheartedly that you have the right to advocate for
DBC. I believe wholeheartedly that I have the right to advocate for
AVT. You are not wrong to do so, and neither am I! The problem lies
when DBC tries to tell parents what we have to do. That, as history
hows us, doesn’t fly.
“It is the babies’s need to have a communicative method at start to
disregard this concept that does more harm than good.”
Just as a hearing child absorbs spoken language from the beginning.
Deaf children when properly aided or using a cochlear implant begin to
absorb the same spoken language from the beginning. Of course 2 month
old babies can’t speak….spoken language is receptive before it is ever
expressive. So bathing a child in spoken language is more than
appropriate at these ages. You must remember as Melissa has said on
more than one post that these children are learning language naturally.
AVT is not speech therapy. I have not done more harm than good for my
child by exposing him to spoken language from the start.
Again, I would suggest that those of you who haven’t visited an AV
center or met with an AV family please do so. It’s not what you think.
April 6, 2008 at 4:37 pm
Here’s another link to AV research
http://www.auditoryverbaltraining.com/AV%20Research%20Outcomes%20Final%
20Preprint.pdf
It also lists several other relevant references at the end.
April 6, 2008 at 4:53 pm
Shel, apology accepted :-) I know that there are so many comments that
can get confused easily.
Here we go again when mom2boys quoted: ..”sign language which AGBell
completely disregard this concept that does more harm than good.” This
is one of the examples that parents who support AG Bell are consumed
with this myth.
Here is the source from Jim Cummins at
http://64.233.167.104/search?q=cache:g4xDflw1wfwJ:clerccenter.gallaudet
.edu/ciec/documents/CumminsASL-Eng_000.pdf+cochlear+with+sign+language+
uccess+sweden&hl=en&ct=clnk&cd=6&gl=us&client=firefox-a
that completely counterattacks this myth.
Title: The Relationship between American Sign Language Proficiency and
English Academic Development:
“The focus in this section has been on the relationship between ASL
proficiency and English literacy; however, it is worth noting that
Scandinavian research also suggests a positive relationship between use
of sign language and speech production among children who have received
cochlear implants (Preisler, Tvingstedt and Ahlström, 2002).
Thus, there is no empirical evidence to support the concern that the
acquisition of ASL will inhibit English speech or literacy development
among children with cochlear implants.”
Also get this:
“The importance of acquiring a strong first language applies equally to
children who receive a cochlear implant. Current policy in Ontario
discourages children who receive cochlear implants from acquiring ASL
fluency in their early years. The assumption appears to be that
acquisition of ASL will impede children’s acquisition of English
proficiency. This assumption relies on a Separate Underlying
Proficiency model of bilingual proficiency (Figure 1) which has been
totally discredited in the research literature on bilingualism and
bilingual education. There is no evidence in the research literature to
upport this assumption. In fact, the little research that does address
the issue suggests the opposite (Preisler et al. 2002).
If the policy is not evidence-based, then this fact should
be acknowledged to parents, and research should be initiated to provide
an empirical basis for policies that profoundly affect the life chances
of so many children.”
So it is all about presenting the facts that the parents have the right
to know but whose job is to tell them? DBC is one of them and it is not
the focus to tell parents what they have to do as mom2boys put at it by
accusing John who said it which he never did by the way.
I can see how the words about what DBC is advocating for by telling
parents what to do are twisted. All DBC wants to do is to educate, mind
you, not to force parents to use ASL. I just rest my case for now.
April 6, 2008 at 5:01 pm
“DBC never have said that we should have ONE method that will work for
all deaf kids.”
I have to giggle at this comment because it’s so obvious that DBC
upports only three out of several methods, ASL, TC, and Bi Bi. When
ASL is used with the Oral approach or AVT approach, it’s no longer oral
nor AVT, but it becomes TC or Bi Bi. That’s what DBC’s supporting – TC,
ASL, or Bi Bi. DBC is not giving people the right to choose which
method to use.
If you want to create an awareness for ASL, be a spokesperson for those
people who believe you. Please don’t go after my mother, mom2boys, and
other parents who are raising their children beautifully and tell them
what they’re doing to their kids is wrong. My mother and I will never
go on other parents of deaf children’s blogs and tell them that they’re
raising their children incorrectly. It’s none of our business. TODAY,
not yesterday when the Milan conference occurred, AGBell will not go
after other organizations and say “Change your policy!” I’m sure you’ve
noticed that AGBell has been silent about DBC – They’re giving you the
respect to let you advocate for whatever you want and give them credit
for that please!
I could say that the research that DBC provided is flawed like Barb
DiGi said that the research that my mother provided is flawed. Why?
Because some come from Gallaudet University and RIT, universities that
are proponents of ASL. Some other research is based on signs for
hearing babies. We’re talking about deaf babies which is different. The
reason why it’s better not to use ASL with deaf babies who have CIs is
because their brains need to learn to hear naturally with their
technology that provides hearing that is not as perfect as normal
hearing in order to gain the best possible benefits from their CIs. I
also came across this page that I have to laugh –
http://www.deafbilingualcoalition.com/8.html This page provides a link
to a wikipedia page which is an unreliable source, especially the fact
that the wikipedia’s header clearly states that the article needs
ADDITIONAL CITATION for VERIFICATION!!
John, can you please answer my questions that I asked before:
Also, has AGBell ever come to any NAD or any ASL related conferences
and rallied against ASL like DBC going to AGBell conferences to rally
against the idea of the oral approach/AVT? (Don’t tell me that DBC
upports the oral approach and AVT. Again, when ASL is added to oral
and AVT, it’s no longer oral nor AVT. It’s TC or Bi BI approach.)
If you don’t like my not using ASL in my life, that’s your problem. Not
mine. I really truly feel that some people are discriminating against
me simply because I don’t know ASL and that needs to come to an end,
just as deaf people who use ASL say they feel discriminated because
they use ASL and/or don’t have perfect speech and/or hearing.
At the end of the day, let’s just enjoy the diversity of the deaf
community. It would be nice for the entire deaf community to have a
common language, but it’s not going to happen. Look at the United
Nations conferences! All of their conferences are filled with people
who don’t speak the same languages, and they have to reply on
interpreters to communicate with each other.
The best way to build the bridge is we accept each other as a unique
deaf person regardless of what methods we use. Karen Mayes is a perfect
example of someone with whom I can build a bridge. While we both have
different beliefs, we both respect each other and can have wonderful
conversations.
April 6, 2008 at 5:04 pm
Those children that I have worked with were implanted as babies and
were in AVT programs. They are now in the elementary school ages so
they are not from the old school method.They are at least 10 years
younger than Rachel..if anyone is from the old school method, it would
be Rachel. They have been in the same methods of AVT u mention and yet,
they werent able to develop language through this approach and ended up
with language delays. That is the goal of DBC..is to ensure that all
children have full access to language, not partial.
Why do you accept putting any deaf children in that kind of risk?
April 6, 2008 at 5:11 pm
MISSION:
“The Deaf Bilingual Coalition, (DBC) promotes the basic human right of
all deaf infants and young children to have access to language and
cognitive development through American Sign Language (ASL).”
I am not twisting the website’s words.
Read this and tell me that you do not promote that ALL deaf children
use ASL.
How did Melissa put Rachel at risk?
April 6, 2008 at 5:12 pm
How did Melissa put Jessica at risk?
April 6, 2008 at 5:16 pm
I do respect your opinion. It’s your opinion. We do not share the same
opinion. Again, no one here is bashing bi-bi for those who have chosen
it for their children. The important thing is parental involvement.
Don’t knock us who have chosen AV for their chidren. None of us would
be continuing such a program if progress isn’t shown. We’re not putting
our children in harm’s way. Can we agree to disagree? OR is the DBC
going to go to Congress and try to force us to use ASL with our
children?
Again, to all, I highly encourage you to visit an AV program and AV
families. It’s not what you think.
April 6, 2008 at 5:31 pm
My husband and I have chosen my son’s primary language to be English.
We believe it is the right of every child to use spoken communication.
If he is properly aided or uses a cochlear implant, why would I begin
by teaching him ASL? Why wouldn’t I choose to begin with English? We
don’t need ASL to learn English. Literacy rates, which I know that you
also value as important, are based on written language/reading.
Therefore literate in English?
Again,
I respect your opinion.
April 6, 2008 at 5:32 pm
Excellent suggestion. I will do that very soon.
April 6, 2008 at 5:35 pm
By using an approach that doesnt guarantee full access to language and
information puts any children at risk. For deaf children, by placing
them in programs where language is best accessed through hearing is
putting them at risk because they are having to use their weakest
ense, the ears.
I feel that all deaf children have the right to full access to language
just like hearing children do and that is a visual language, in other
words, ASL.
I am just tired of seeing so many children coming into my program at an
older age so delayed in language because they didnt have full access to
language. It shows that even though with CIs, these children didnt have
full access to language just like their hearing counterparts did. Is
that right to put deaf children in that position? If a hearing child
was put in that position, an outcry would occurr, wouldnt it? For deaf
children, it seems to be ok cuz we all want them to act like they are
hearing, not deaf children, right?
My answer would be yes, Melissa took a risk by placing her children in
an oral-only environment. I remember reading somewhere that one of them
had language delays when she was younger. Anyone can correct me if I am
wrong.
April 6, 2008 at 5:41 pm
Are you happy that your parents took a risk?
April 6, 2008 at 5:43 pm
“AGBell will not go after other organizations and say “Change your
policy!” I’m sure you’ve noticed that AGBell has been silent about DBC
– They’re giving you the respect to let you advocate for whatever you
want and give them credit for that please!”
Didn’t AGBell write a letter to Pepsi blasting them for using ASL in
their commercial recently?
To say that I risked my children’s well being is insulting. Rachel’s
and Jessica’s success and accomplishments speak to my not only not
putting them at risk but also are evidence of how the approach that I
took for them benefitted them so greatly.
I cannot speak about the children you know. I can not know if they were
in legitimate AV programs or if they had parents who did the necessary
follow-through at home. What I can speak about are the many children
who have gone through and continue to go through my AV center. They are
all succeeding as my girls have. Far from putting their children at
risk, what their parents are doing for them is benefitting them and
will stand them in good stead for the rest of their lives.
Rae's Mom
April 6, 2008 at 5:46 pm
How can we expect to agree on such a subject when we don’t even agree
on normal parenting ideas? Do you spank your child? Or time out? How
about the rewards system? Should they be vegetarians or can they eat
meat? Super healthy food or take out once in a while? No tv and video
games? Most parents do not always agree with how we raise our children.
There are no laws saying love and logic, for example, should be THE
way.
I personally enjoy the insight that Rachel provides in her blog. It is
very rare that I get to hear so much from someone who grew up with a
CI. I have spoken with adults who have gotten CIs later in life. Some
of them had hearing and lost it, some had minimal hearing with hearing
aids and chose to have the surgery. Although I am sure there are many
who are not happy with the result, these people have been. However,
there experiences are not the same as someone implanted at a young age.
In my opinion, ANY parent preparing to have ANY surgery for their child
hould know the pros and cons of the surgery and what is required to
make it successful in the end. Those who go into this without the
proper information will be disappointed. The professionals are as much
to blame as the parent if they have not made it clear what it takes to
make the CI successful before the surgery. It is in no way a fix all.
There are people that will never be able to use the device for various
reasons. And it takes work, therapy, parent and school involvement to
make it successful. I am afraid that people often do not acknowledge
this at the beginning. There are, also, people who choose not to have
the surgery.
I think both sides should realize it is only up to the parent. What I
find so sad and sometimes very annoying is how ugly people seem to be
towards the parents and the children with CIs. Honestly, that is your
opinion and none of your business. I think ASL is a beautiful
fascinating language. I would love to be fluent in ASL, unfortunately
that proves difficult for me. At the time we were required to wait two
years, using hearing aids, which did not work at all for her, before we
could have her implanted. My daughter was provided with teachers from
the School for the Deaf from 6 months until three when the local school
ystem takes over. We chose to have total communication at the time. My
daughter was implanted shortly after and eventually, SHE showed less
interest in the sign we taught her than in the sounds she was hearing.
It wasn’t a perfect transition and if I had my choice I probably would
have had her implanted earlier. But we had communication at the time
and we still do. She is a happy child. She LOVES school. No one can
tell me I’m wrong, I’m living it. My daughter now has a choice, when
he is older she can continue with the speech we have given her or she
can continue to learn the ASL that was her first language. As long as
my daughter is happy in the end, I will be as well.
Rachel is happy the way she is, she does not wish to experience what
you keep pushing at her. Let her experience life on her own terms and
you on yours. She is trying to provide information for parents on her
website. If you do not agree, I suggest you take it with a grain of
alt, as I do the flame posts that I have found on the net, both before
and after my daughter’s surgery.
April 6, 2008 at 5:48 pm
Shel, you are correct that “oral failures” is a horrible term to use.
It’s really hard to know what other label there is that accurately
explains what one is talking about. Does anybody have a better label?
Hey..dont take it personal. It is a fact that deaf children’s ears are
their weakest sense and spoken language is processed auditoritally so
yes, that is a risk.
Those parents have put their children in AVT programs. How many times
do I have to say it? If you dont believe me, you dont have to but that
wont hide the fact that there are still numerous children being
deprived of language and how do we stop that? By ignoring it? No…that’s
why I support the DBC.
April 6, 2008 at 5:50 pm
I prefer to say that the approach failed the children. I still call the
deaf childen.. I would never ever put the word “failure” next to their
names.
April 6, 2008 at 5:53 pm
I’m glad you support DBC. I support your decision. I support AVT. Do
you support mine?
April 6, 2008 at 5:59 pm
I do not support strictly-only AVT…I would like ASL/AVT. To make it
clear, I am not supporting ASL-only. The DBC supports the use of both
which is why I support it. It is good for deaf children to have oral
kills but I think they all are entiltled to the same rights as hearing
children do when it comes to having full access to language.
I do not support only-ASL.
I do not support only-AVT.
I support the use of both for all deaf children.
April 6, 2008 at 6:01 pm
Rachel, I think you may have some misconceptions of what Total
Communication really is. May I suggest that you do a bit of research,
and it may be difficult, because even professionals confuse the term.
April 6, 2008 at 6:06 pm
My parents didn’t take the risk. They followed AVT’s guidelines
correctly, and they were very involved parents by working very hard to
help me succeed. There are several factors that allow me to hear and
peak well, and to be who I am today. Here are the factors:
- Using AVT guidelines correctly.
- Having a good AVT therapist who has AVT certification.
- Spending at least an hour every day doing therapy work, which I
thought was playtime with my mommy.
- Communicating with me as much as possible throughout the day. For
example, when my mother cooked. She didn’t just stand and cook by
herself and let me sit and play. She asked me to help her. When I
helped her, she would cover mouth and say, “Rachel, go get carrots.”
“Rachel, what color is this apple?” Of course, she expected me to
respond, and I did. I never realized until later in my life that she
was doing this as part of therapy work. I thought it was just a
mother-daughter moment.
- Taking me to audiology appointments at least once or twice a year to
make sure that I have good maps. I’ve had times throughout my life when
my parents noticed that I wasn’t hearing well. As soon as they noticed
that I wasn’t hearing well, they took me to the audiologist who fixed
my hearing. It’s very important to keep children’s maps up-to-date.
- Have a good audiologist. There are audiologists out there are who are
not doing their best job, and I’ve gone through that. Thanks to my
parents, they took me to NYU to the best audiologist when I had a
not-so-good audiologist until we found a better one in Atlanta. I know
a few parents who will drive as much as 1 or 2 hours just to go to the
best audiologist, even though there are a few in their local areas.
- Sending me to mainstream schools that best fit me. For middle school,
my parents sent me to a school that had a teacher of hearing impaired
to help me with my slight language delay. Having a good teacher of the
hearing impaired is a plus. My teacher of the hearing impaired helped
me tremendously to improve my language delay and prepared me well for
high school. Again, for high school, I went to a high school that also
had an outstanding teacher of the hearing impaired who mentored me well
in my English classes.
- Parents being there to help me whenever I requested. If I didn’t
understand a particular homework assignment that I had, my parents were
there to help me.
I’m very thankful for my parents for being very dedicated in my life.
If one of these factors is faulty in a child’s life, then it’s going to
create problems allowing the child to succeed.
April 6, 2008 at 6:08 pm
“John, can you please answer my questions that I asked before:”
“Please state where I said in my blog entries that I’m more “perfect”
again in the future.”
I had used quote marks on the word “perfect”. It was your attitude, the
way you write and say things, the conclusion of your statements
“Is it really fair for me not to be able to talk about my being happy
why you enjoy being bilingual by using ASL and English?”
I am happy for you to be happy, no problem there but it is the way you
ay it as if you are a 5 year old kid to another kid. You seem don’t
understand how your immature statement reflects yourself.
“Also, has AGBell ever come to any NAD or any ASL related conferences
and AVT, it’s no longer oral nor AVT. It’s TC or Bi BI approach.)”
AGBell and 1880 Milan eliminated our sign language and forced oral only
method upon deaf children in schools and became victims of the
deprivation in cognitive language. The Deaf people just want their sign
language back. AGBell can have their oral only methods but it is us,
the victims that need to fight to get our dignity of our sign language
back.
Rachel, don’t you have any feelings of how awful AGBell was to take
away the deaf people’s sign language, AGBell is obviously an oppressor!
“If you don’t like my not using ASL in my life, that’s your problem.
Not mine. I really truly feel that some people are discriminating
against me simply because I don’t know ASL and that needs to come to an
end, just as deaf people who use ASL say they feel discriminated
because they use ASL and/or don’t have perfect speech and/or hearing.”
I have many deaf friends that don’t know ASL and have CI. I have
nothing against it. The different between you and my oral friends is
ATTITUDE. Simple as that!
“At the end of the day, let’s just enjoy the diversity of the deaf
interpreters to communicate with each other.”
Yes, let’s do give respect to the diversity of the deaf community. The
Deaf community wants their sign language back that AGBell stigmatized
the society that ASL should not be used because a deaf child will not
be able to have good speech which is not true.
“The best way to build the bridge is we accept each other as a unique
conversations.”
Yes, I agree, we need to tear down that wall that AGBell/AVT and its
associates created since 1880 and build a bridge to accept our needs of
cognitive language.
Thank you,
April 6, 2008 at 6:15 pm
“I had used quote marks on the word “perfect”. It was your attitude,
the way you write and say things, the conclusion of your statements”
Please provide some quotes from my entries that show my attitude that
you don’t like. I would like to learn.
April 6, 2008 at 6:17 pm
I agree with you that many of us have lived with the stigma that AGBell
created years ago and it hurted many of us. Despite my oral success, I
grew up feeling disconnected from everyone because my rights to have
friends who were like me were taken away cuz the professionals felt
that it was better for me to have hearing peers as role models to
ensure that my speech skills are utilized. What they forgot was my
ocio-emotional needs as a deaf person.
I think there is just way too much focus on speech and hearing.
Eyes wide open. No one here is trying to take away your language. Why
are you trying to take away our children’s language and replace it with
ASL? Eyes wide open. I mean replace our children’s primary language
with ASL?
It seems to me that the wall is yours. Tear it down, John. AVT is not
creating a wall. It’s a choice. It’s an option. English is cognitive
April 6, 2008 at 6:24 pm
Don’t you think that citing something that occurred in 1880 as
justification for your thoughts and actions 128 years later is
tretching it? If you check A.G. Bell’s website today, you will see
AG Bell Joins Amicus Brief in Hospital-Interpreting Case
Recently, AG Bell joined several advocacy groups in filing an amicus
brief in the U.S. Court of Appeals, Second Circuit, in the case of
Loeffler v. Staten Island University Hospital. The case involved a
plaintiff who is deaf who requested, but was denied, an interpreter
during treatment at a hospital. AG Bell joined the National Disability
Rights Center, National Council on Interpreting in Health Care,
National Association of the Deaf and many other organizations to
“emphasize…the ramifications of denying effective interpretation
ervices to patients who require them.” The brief further argued that
the hospital violated “long-established clinical and public health
tandards for proper patient care, placing the lives and well-being of
patients who are deaf …at risk.”
and
EHDI Act of 2007
Originally enacted in 2000, the Early Hearing Detection and
Intervention (EHDI) Act provides funding for early hearing detection
and intervention programs nationwide. The U.S. Congress is currently
considering reauthorization of this landmark legislation. On Thursday,
March 13, the House Energy and Commerce Committee passed the EHDI Act
of 2007 (H.R. 1198). It will now go on the entire House of
Representatives to be voted on sometime in the first two weeks of
April.
as well as an entire section on advocacy, much of which applies to all
deaf and hard of hearing children.
April 6, 2008 at 6:26 pm
Mom2boys…
ASL is a cognitive language too and it is 100% accessible to deaf
children.
What do u have against with the use of both? Why is a language that is
not fully accessible the only option for you?
April 6, 2008 at 6:27 pm
Did u read the letter AGBell wrote to Pepsi and how degrading it was to
ASL and the Deaf community? I believe that was in 2008.
Deaf Person
April 6, 2008 at 6:31 pm
Umm…what about these deaf children with CI that come from deaf
families? I have spoken with 2 deaf mothers whose children with CI are
peaking and hearing very well despite using ASL at home.
Any opinions?
April 6, 2008 at 6:33 pm
Deaf Person,
You brought up a very good question, and I actually got an e-mail from
a deaf mother who has a deaf child asking me that question. Here’s my
response to her:
I’m definitely supportive of deaf children of deaf parents using ASL as
that’s your family’s primary language and mode of communication. Plus,
those deaf children who have deaf parents have the advantage because
they are learning sign language from parents who are already fluent in
it, whereas parents who hear normally and have no background in sign
language is an issue because to them, learning ASL is like learning a
whole new language from scratch. Thus, those children would be at a
greater disadvantage if their parents used ASL as the primary mode of
communication because they’re not getting the full complete language
from the start unlike those deaf children of deaf parents. If you have
different thoughts from my thoughts, I would definitely be interested
in hearing it as I enjoy hearing different perspectives.
April 6, 2008 at 6:40 pm
Melissa and Mom2Boys,
You both are naive about AGBell, read that they wrote to Pepsi just
three months ago,
January 31, 2008
Ms. Julie Hamp Senior Vice President
PepsiCo Communications
700 Anderson Hill Road Purchase, NY 10577
Dear. Ms. Hamp,
On behalf of the Alexander Graham Bell Association for the Deaf and
Hard of Hearing (AG Bell), we are writing in regards to the airing of
your upcoming Super Bowl commercial highlighting deaf characters.
Established in 1890, AG Bell is the only national organization
dedicated to supporting children and adults who are deaf or hard of
hearing who use spoken language and hearing technology to communicate
in mainstream society.
Although we appreciate Pepsi’s efforts to encourage new promotional
ideas from your rank-and-file employees and your willingness to
celebrate diversity, we would be remiss if we did not call your
attention to the fact that your advertisement offers a limited view of
the deaf community. Since you have chosen the Super Bowl as the forum
to launch this campaign, and because of Pepsi’s size and stature, we
feel a responsibility to offer our perspective on this somewhat
misleading stereotype presented in your advertisement.
We trust you understand that deaf and hard of hearing individuals are a
diverse group and therefore do not fit into a single, distinct culture.
Your advertisement perpetuates a common myth that all people who are
deaf can only communicate using sign language and are, therefore,
isolated from the rest of society. In fact, today’s hearing technology,
coupled with early screening identification and intervention, has led
to incredible advances in listening and spoken language skill
development. Of the more than 30 million Americans who live with
hearing loss, the majority use spoken language as their primary mode of
We would also like to remind you that with the amount of money Pepsi
will spend on just one 60 second spot to air during the Super Bowl, you
could help an untold number of families obtain hearing aids and other
professional services that are costly and in many cases not covered by
medical insurance. We would be very willing to work with Pepsi to
develop some creative ideas to promote other facets of the deaf
community and to highlight positive role models who have met the
challenges of this condition and thrived using spoken language. In
addition, we invite and encourage your participation at our 2008
convention to be held in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, June 27-30; the largest
gathering of families with deaf and hard of hearing children in the
world.
Your continued involvement in this issue would go a long way to educate
the public about this oftentimes invisible condition and promote
appreciation for those individuals that go above and beyond to overcome
the absence of something many of us take for granted – the miracle of
ound.
April 6, 2008 at 7:02 pm
Mom2Boys said;
“John,
language.”
Mom2Boys, Never anywhere I have said that we should take away English
and replace with ASL. My goal is only to focus on babies from start to
18-24 months to learn to communicate with parents while their vocal
chord’s development is not ready to speak. And the only way to
communicate is sign language. But sadly, many parents have been
tigmatized by AGBell that sign language “should be avoid at all cost”.
Please stop trying to mislead readers of my intention.
April 6, 2008 at 7:04 pm
“‘I had used quote marks on the word ‘perfect’. It was your attitude,
the way you write and say things, the conclusion of your statements’
you don’t like. I would like to learn.”
Still waiting… If you want my attitude to change, please provide me
quotes from my previous blog entries that shows my attitude that you
don’t like.
April 6, 2008 at 7:13 pm
Where do you get that a baby’s vocal cords are not ready to speak
between 18 – 24 months of age? My son was speaking in sentences by 20
months of age, and hearing babies start babbling at less than a year of
age.
April 6, 2008 at 7:19 pm
I said from start to 18-24 months. Some babies start 4 months old and
ome said earlier so I now it is better if I say from “start” to 18-24
months.
No where I have said between 18 and 24 months.
April 6, 2008 at 7:25 pm
After reading many of your blogs, it is just obvious that you assume to
think that way.
I am not going to waste my time with you because I don’t think that you
will ever realize about your attitude…like you just said………”Still
Waiting… If you want my attitude to change, please provide me quotes
from my previous blog entries that shows my attitude that you don’t
like.”
April 6, 2008 at 7:30 pm
So, here’s a question about a specific example for those of you who
advocate the Bi Bi approach. When my girls were little, I read to them
a lot. In addition, I used experience books that I made for them with
almost daily entries about events and concepts in their lives. When we
would sit and talk about these story books or their experience books,
I’d do it either with them sitting on my lap looking at the book and
listening to me or with them by my side with their implanted ear next
to me as they both only initially had one ear implanted. I consider
this time spent with them to be a very important part of their auditory
training time as it was one-on-one focused listening time with my
working on language and vocabulary through books and their personal
experiences. So, if you don’t advocate sign and speech at the same time
but, rather, separately, then I would have needed to also do this
eparately with sign, but then that would have taken away time I spent
doing this auditorally, which would have taken away from their auditory
training time and, thus, hindered the development of their auditory
pathways. As any parent knows, there are only so many hours in the day,
and we filled our available hours with these types of activities, all
of which contributed to my daughters having the language and hearing
kills that they have today.
I would suggest you to read one of Jodi’s blog entries that explains
well why I write the way I write –
http://rallycapsdotnet.blogspot.com/2008/03/re-ci-controversial-why.htm
l
“What if deaf individuals who have worked so hard in avt and in life in
general are just proud to live their deaf experience with a ci and the
‘superiority aspect’ of being fluent in the English Language has
nothing to do with it? What if they are advocating ‘Choice’ in the deaf
experience by discussing the benefits of ci? If Rachel is here on
deafread.com to interact in productive dialogue with individuals
interested in her experience, is she an audist because she is willing
to openly answer questions about her journey? Or is she an ‘audist’
because her views conflict with those of readers?
She responds to criticism, reads it, listens and reflects…she is not an
audist.
Do you measure your level of success based on how others see you or as
how you see yourself? Really consider the answer to that question and
you will begin to see Rachel as a twenty year old woman who sees
herself as successful. This is why she is not an audist, just a person
who has achieved something desired after working so hard for so many
years, and that she wants to share this experience with others. Audism
carries a component of hatred, just like racism…do you really feel that
Rachel hates you?”
I think you just don’t want to hear any stories about my being happy
and confident so that your organization can grow!
April 6, 2008 at 7:35 pm
I never said that you are an audist.
Maybe you need to go to a workshop of some kind to learn how to express
yourself.
Rachel, I think that you can be a great person but it is something that
you have that needs to be improve about how you write or communicate.
April 6, 2008 at 7:40 pm
I think you are confused with the BiBi method. This is for the
educational setting at schools. I know of so many families who have had
deaf people volunteer to come to their homes to read stories to their
children using ASL while the parents maintain the responsibility for
poken language exposure. Never did I say that the parents must use
both at home..just only when the children were unable to develop spoken
April 6, 2008 at 7:44 pm
And that helps the child communicate with the parent how? And, if we’re
talking about schools, how does that apply to babies and toddlers?
April 6, 2008 at 7:53 pm
John, why do you feel you must make a personal attack on Rachel? “Maybe
you need to go to a workshop of some kind to learn how to express
yourself.” PLEASE!!!
I am well over 50 and continue to improve how I write and communicate.
I endeavor to reach out and learn from others.
This beautiful, articulate, and generous person Rachel has given me
uch hope and inspiration. Keep up the good work Rachel, this world
needs more young people like you willing to share and enlighten us.
April 6, 2008 at 8:02 pm
Cal Grandma
I am admire your inspiration for Rachel.
Let’s stop playing games.
We need to focus on the big picture, babies need communicative language
from age 4 months to 18-24 months and AGBell doesn’t want that to
happen.
April 6, 2008 at 8:05 pm
Here is your response to this quote: “DBC never have said that we
hould have ONE method that will work for all deaf kids.”
Rachel: “I have to giggle at this comment because it’s so obvious that
DBC supports only three out of several methods, ASL, TC, and Bi Bi.
When ASL is used with the Oral approach or AVT approach, it’s no longer
oral nor AVT, but it becomes TC or Bi Bi. That’s what DBC’s supporting
– TC, ASL, or Bi Bi. DBC is not giving people the right to choose which
method to use.”
Hold it right there! DBC and many people like me do not support TC It
is obvious that you don’t understand what TC is since it can be either
a combination of signs and speech, manually coded English, and/or ASL.
We are not supporting this philosophy at all because it makes learning
a language confusing and that these methods consist artificial
languages. For a Deaf child to go through a program that makes two
languages distinct, one should experience spoken language if applicable
and ASL separately, not at the same time. DBC has made it clear that it
is against the concept of oral only approach and it has always
advocated to add ASL to oral approach. Just hold your laughs because
you are getting it all wrong.
Never once did I ever say that these parents did it wrong but provided
proof that ASL helps language development. There are too many
misconceptions that I feel I am in a position to clarify the
misconception, instead, I have been pushed away and been ridiculed at.
I have presented many research documents and many of them proof that
there are benefits for a Deaf child with or without CI to acquire ASL.
But you just continue to giggle because you found one of many research
documents that includes WiKi. Wiki is an online source that includes
what the Deaf community has shared as it was never intended to be one
of the main research documents anyway, besides it doesn’t say anything
about AVT so it is not even the focus of the topic here.
NAD welcomes the diversity of the Deaf community. They, including ASL
Expo, even have a booth on CI and do you see one about ASL in AG Bell?
Nope! Don’t you see that AG Bell shuns and bashes ASL by giving parents
a wrong message You don’t simply tell people who support DBC to hush up
because AG Bell hushed it up too long.
Anyway, the topic is not only about you but it is about remaining CI
children who are not successful with AVT that they don’t have ASL to
back them up.
Since you and I are on the same page wanting to build bridges by
accepting each other, I asked you a question that you haven’t answered
to me before:
Would you support both ASL AND AVT for Deaf babies?
I don’t have a problem with that, do you?
April 6, 2008 at 8:08 pm
What games?
This is not AGBell’s website. It is Rachel’s.
April 6, 2008 at 8:10 pm
No one can support AVT and ASL for deaf babies because, by definition,
it wouldn’t then be AVT because one of the main principles of AVT is
that language is taught through the auditory and not visual. You can
ask if one would support the use of both spoken language and ASL, but
ign cannot be added to AVT any more than the Bi Bi approach would be
the Bi Bi approach without ASL.
April 6, 2008 at 8:12 pm
“Would you support both ASL AND AVT for Deaf babies?
I don’t have a problem with that, do you?”
As I’ve always said, I will not support ASL and AVT for deaf babies.
Please respect that while I respect your opinion. I don’t mind your
advocating for bi-bi approach, but please don’t ask people like me to
agree with you.
Building bridges doesn’t mean agreeing on the same method. It means
respecting each other.
Please don’t ask me this question again.
April 6, 2008 at 8:13 pm
I fully support ASL and AVT for Deaf babies. I dont know why the
parents and Rachel have a hard time supporting that too.
I suggest that you visit BiBi programs for babies up to high school so
you can gain a full understanding of where many of us are trying to
explain. It is hard to understand via the Internet until you see it in
action.
April 6, 2008 at 8:16 pm
Rachel and Melissa,
By not supporting ASL to AVT programs, you are indirectly supporting
putting numerous of deaf babies at risk for language delays due to
poken language not being fully accessible to them. I think AVT only is
just playing Russian roulette with these children’s language
development. You can deny it all you want but it is happening out
there. Maybe you choose to be blind to it, perhaps?
We are supporting your AVT approach but yet, you are not supporting the
ASL approach so how is that building bridges for our deaf children?
April 6, 2008 at 8:27 pm
Of course, it is your opinion and I respect that as well. I have
already shared that Deaf babies who acquire ASL have more benefits in
developing speech/auditory skills when they get to reach at an
appropriate age when they can start using vocal chords. I have already
hared in my recent blog how parents can learn ASL.
http://deafprogressivism.blogspot.com/2008/04/hearing-parents-can-learn
-asl-how.html
I have tried to build bridges by meeting you halfway and instead you
just brush me off. I just don’t understand why would you want to put
Deaf babies at risk by exposing AVT only to them knowing that ASL would
guarantee them to develop literacy skills. What’s wrong with having
both Ok, I am outta here so thanks for letting me to participate in the
forum. Just please continue to be open minded about bilingual approach.
April 6, 2008 at 8:34 pm
I feel just as the same as you too. As for that, I feel that nothing is
being accomplished here.
Thanks and have a good evening,
Shelly
April 6, 2008 at 8:37 pm
Shel, thanks for providing your valid points as well. **shrugging my
houlders** about these die-hard pure AVT fans, lol. Ciao!
Shelley Potma
April 6, 2008 at 8:40 pm
I have stayed out of this debate, but can no longer stand by and say
nothing.
language. It’s puzzling.”
1#110: “Eyes wide open. No one here is trying to take away your
language. Why are you trying to take away our children’s language and
replace it with ASL? Eyes wide open. I mean replace our children’s
primary language with ASL?
Those two comments show a serious lack of comprehension of, and respect
toward ASL as an actual cognitive language. Do read the research
materials that Barb DiGi suggested. Also, William Stokoe’s research in
the 1960′s proved that ASL is a language since it has all linguistic
components i.e. grammar, syntax, pragmatics (it even has phonology
level and morphology level (both free and bound morphemes).
Research has shown that language occurs in the left brain. Guess what.
Spoken English, Spanish, and all other spoken languages occur in the
left brain. So does ASL! Actual languages are processed through the
left side of the brain. Artifical modes of communications (ie. Sim-com,
Total communication, SEE) are processed in the right side of brain,
which is NOT the component of the brain used for language development.
Look it up, all of you.
Why is it that hearing babies are given the extra benefits of signing
from birth, and yet Deaf babies are denied that? See Amy Cohen-Efron’s
The Greatest Irony vlog.
Language and cognition does NOT begin the moment a child speaks, nor
does it begin the minute a child is implanted. It begins the minute the
mother speaks or signs to the baby… right after birth. While one waits
for implantation, and does not sign with the baby, one loses precious
time in the language and cognitive process with that child… one that
will end up in a race against time. The window of opportunity for
language acquisition can close as early as 6 years of age. The DBC is
advocating the use of ASL from birth, to stimulate the language
acquisition process. Parents who are not fluent in ASL can still learn
and use it, grow with the child AND expose the child to deaf adults
with good ASL skills. My own mother did that when she found out I was
Deaf at 6 months of age. FYI: I have never been through the oral nor
the AVT method, and I THANK GOD FOR THAT. I would have been otherwise
damaged linguistically, both in ASL and in English because ASL is
usually used at the very last resort after the Oral or AVT methods
fail.
to do. That, as history shows us, doesn’t fly.” That is rich!!! AGBell
has been telling parents what they have to do since the Milan
Convention of 1880, and for 128 years parents have accepted it from
them. This has resulted in the suffering of thousands and thousands of
Deaf children. Yet when we,the Deaf, who go through life as Deaf people
and are the best source of information and advice when it comes to all
things Deaf, are told we are bullying you parents, and telling you what
to do????? How’s that for irony?!?
Shel (A Deaf Canadian)
April 6, 2008 at 9:13 pm
Deafie says in #66:
“ASL failures versus ASL successful children AVT failures versus AVT
uccessful children CI failures versus CI successful children”
It varies from an individual to an individual. If learning disabilities
were not detected quickly, the learning process would be hindered
amongst children. I knew of a deaf fellow who did not make the grade in
oral school due to his learning disability which had not been detected
until he was eight of age. His mother had to learn Cued Speech, and, in
turn, she taught CS to her him. Through Cued Speech did he make a
mooth transition to the process of language acquisition. (Ironic as it
may sound, his younger brother with perfectly normal hearing failed in
regular school. It turned out that he also had a learning disability.
His mother decided to apply the same approach. It did work. The two
brothers went on to a university thereafter.)
Jean
April 6, 2008 at 9:30 pm
I have no more comments
Good night
April 6, 2008 at 9:43 pm
Jean,
Your comment is very true. My sister, Jessica, has apraxia, a type of
peech disorder. When she was first implanted, she was not making any
progress in speech during the first few months as my parents expected.
So, they took her to a specific therapist (I can’t remember the type of
therapist, but I’ll ask my mother) to find out why my sister was not
developing speech well even though she was responding to the sounds
with her CI. So, the therapist gave her the diagnosis of apraxia and
gave her treatments for her specific disorder and within months, her
peech took off, and she’s now speaking very well!
You’re absolutely right that learning disabilities need to be detected
quickly. That’s where the parental involvement plays the role. Yes,
every individual is different, and we are fortunate to have many
different methods to choose from that best fit our lifestyle.
“(Ironic as it may sound, his younger brother with perfectly normal
hearing failed in regular school. It turned out that he also had a
learning disability. His mother decided to apply the same approach. It
did work. The two brothers went on to a university thereafter.)”
It’s really interesting how certainly methodologies that are meant for
people who are deaf can also work for hearing people like some people
ay that ASL helps improve normal hearing people’s language.
That goes for AVT too. Even though my brother has normal hearing, my
mother still provided my brother some AVT, and he consistently scores
99th percentile on the verbal section of standardized testing.
April 6, 2008 at 9:55 pm
Hi Shel,
ASL is a language. I respect that.
I’ve read the research.
Didn’t wait for implantion. Found out about hearing loss. Properly
aided the day after learning about his hearing loss. So he didn’t lose
precious time.
“FYI: I have never been through the oral nor the AVT method, and I
THANK GOD FOR THAT. I would have been otherwise damaged linguistically,
both in ASL and in English because ASL is usually used at the very last
resort after the Oral or AVT methods fail.”
NICE!
If you read John’s comment to which I was referring……”One way to
resolve this issue is to have all of us (both sides) to go to Congress
and demand to have a “Language Commission Study for the Deaf”. A three
or four year study by “non-bias” group (Not AGBell, AVT, Gallaudet,
etc) to find out if “Oral only method” or “ASL only method” or English
only method or Bilingual method – ASL/English(reading and writing) or
ASL and oral combine method should be adopted for all Deaf babies and
children in schools.”
That he actually thinks that we should go to Congress and let them tell
parents what they have to do. He is saying that it’s ASL or the
highway?? Sounds a little domineering to me…and to many others.
“I think AVT only is just playing Russian roulette with these
children’s language development.”
Come on….everyone look. This is what parents of AV families see a lot
of…it’s truly sad. Melissa, how have you dealt with this for 21 years?
“We are supporting your AVT approach but yet, you are not supporting
the ASL approach so how is that building bridges for our deaf
children?”
Ok, what is it? You say you don’t support it. You now say you do?
I support decisions parents make for their children when they work hard
and make the necessary sacrifices for their well being. I support your
right to your opinion. I prefer the choice I made for my child.
Nope..wasn’t playing Russian Roulette at the time either.
For those of you out there who truly care (just kidding), today my son
was speaking with his aunt on the phone (she has a funny accent as he’s
used to a southern drawl), and he told her all about my birthday
party…cake, etc. She asked him what flavors of ice cream we had, etc.
He told her about mint chocolate and chocolate. In other words, it was
cool that he was able carry on a great conversation long distance with
a funny sounding aunt using his cochlear implant. I think he asked her
to repeat something once. Mind you that this was in our very loud
kitchen with his baby brother in the background and his father doing
the dishes. (only b/c it was my birthday) She is a very important part
of our lives, and it’s truly great that he can develop this
relationship via the phone as we don’t see her enough. He’s 5.
OK NO COMMENTS ABOUT HOW WE COULD USE OTHER METHODS OF COMMUNICATING
WITH HER….just respect that this is cool.
April 6, 2008 at 9:58 pm
Oops Shel,
I forgot. If you get the opportunity, visit an AV Center and check it
out. It’s not what you think.
April 6, 2008 at 9:59 pm
I meant the first Shel if you are not the same? American Shel? Canadian
Shel?
Ann_C
April 6, 2008 at 10:26 pm
I’ve read this entire post with its comments, good golly 142 comments
and counting. Ya know, Rachel came into DR with her own blog, with her
own views which are about CI’s, AVT therapy, and her life as a young
deaf person with a CI, NOT about ASL, Deaf culture, or DBC.
Yet here are some DR bloggers or commenters who are demanding that she
change her “attitude” regarding ASL for deaf babies, Deaf culture, and
that they change their “attitude” about CI’s, AVT therapy and all that
jazz, now has she, folks??
And this demanding for PROOF, PROOF, and PROOF is getting out of hand
and outright silly. Anybody worth his salt knows that many studies
and/or surveys are not without bias, not without variables that can
alter results, paid for by organizations with their own agendas, etc.
Any group or organization can interpret results of a study for their
own ends as well. Get Congress to commission a study on language
acquisition for deaf children and you’ve got the government telling
parents how to raise their own children, deaf or otherwise. Anybody
really want that??
Don’t get me wrong, I hold some different views from Rachel’s. At least
he’s sticking her neck on the line to express what are her views, just
as Mishka Zena or Barb Digi or Tom Willard or Paotie do several days a
week. There’s more than one way to skin a polecat.
April 6, 2008 at 10:56 pm
Ann,
Thanks. You are a breath of fresh air. I respect that you may not agree
with all of what Rachel says. I wouldn’t expect anyone to do so.
The funny thing is that I spent my birthday blogging. Wow. It was
actually a change of pace from my life with three boys, a husband, a
male cat and dog. I think my husband thought it was a weird choice on
my part, but for you moms out there, it was kind of relaxing.
April 6, 2008 at 11:05 pm
I can’t just stay mum on this one thing anymore….many of you who
upport DBC are a product of TC just as I was! I noticed this Cheryl
from MA saying that she grew up with other method and ended up using
ASL and ASL fits for her. Most of us are a product of TC because that
was what was offered to us in our generation. We are NOT a product of
ASL!!!!! Most of us probably use ASL now or a combination of ASL/PSE
maybe simcom and so on… Which brings up more questions which I will not
get into now.
And from reading the rest of the comments and I actually read the last
PDF file that Melissa posted in her comment. How many of you have read
it all? What I read answered the question I had in my mind from someone
who teaches at a mainstream school. This person was angry and told me
eeing successes.
There is no question that if a parent decide they prefer C.I., the
parent is going to have to follow the suggested plan to ensure their
child is going to be successful.
Now, for DBC to advocate Bi Bi, that’s fine. But, I think DBC is going
about it the wrong way. Why are you going after AGB? AGB is on the
right track for parents who prefer their kids to have C.I. AGB is not
for parents who prefers their kids to use ASL.
Forget about AGB’s pespi letter..in fact his letter is no better than
other letters I’ve seen deaf write in regards to Cold Case show, etc.
This is trivial.
DBC, if you advocate ASL, Your job should ideally ensure that the
hospitals/ENT/ whatever…provides information about Bi Bi approach. Your
job would then to make sure that these parents have what they need for
their child if they choose Bi Bi approach.
There is no way you can mix these two.
There may be deaf families that incorporates ASL in addition to AVT and
it may be possible for them because ASL is their language but for the
majority of hearing parents, it is not.
I really think DBC is approaching it in the wrong way!
I respect both approaches and respect the parents that makes their
decisions.
I however am concerned more about OTHER parents who have a false sense
of thinking that once they get their child implanted, their child will
just automatically pick up and be “normal”. There are too many kids
being implanted after five years old and with no intense AVT at all or
dedicated parental involvement. Many of these kids were already exposed
to ASL or signs at their school since they were already part of the
deaf/hoh programs. That is where many C.I. failures comes from. The
term “C.I. Failures” tend to be used by mainstream deaf teachers
because they tend to be frustrated when dumped with kids like that. I
think it’s a terrible term but it is what it is. I believe C.I.
failures are a result of lazy parents or parents who are misinformed.
Perhaps DBC should rescue these kids.
I learned a lot by reading the materials that Melissa provided. And I
uggest you all who disagree with Rachel, to read it as well. Read all
the documentation over at DBC and I’m sure you will come away with a
better understanding on this ever so controversial topic.
I think these two needs to be kept separately and we need to respect
these two as two sepearate approach. The exception would be if a deaf
family decides to implant their child, then I can see where AVT and ASL
would be able to work.
dog food
April 7, 2008 at 2:27 am
Wow, i appreciate many of the comments spent back and forth here.
I do want to point out that referring to scientific data and stats may
not always help any points here on this topic. This is a personal
experience that is varied in so many beautiful ways.
John, I can actually feel the heat of your emotions in your words in
many comments. I believe Rachel is being open minded and is doing well
in this kitchen. I think theres an opportunity to work together here,
I really appreciate Open Minded’s comment. I appreciate DBC’s efforts
and all the people behind Cochlear Implant Online.
In the end, it seems everyone’s efforts are all about being able to
communicate. Its a beautiful thing worth working for.
April 7, 2008 at 5:41 am
Yup… dog food has a point… it all comes down to communicating… somehow.
If cone does not agree, don’t try forcing down the throats to make them
agree. It is all personal.
Candy has a point… there are several CI children who are not doing
well… same as several non-CI children not doing well.
Anyway, I enjoyed reading the comments.
April 7, 2008 at 6:37 am
Same goes for some hearing children not doing well while other hearing
people doing well.
No difference.
Deaf/Oral Linda
April 7, 2008 at 8:12 am
DBC, Barb Digi, Deaf/ASL/non-speak are still dicriminated Against
AGBELL, CI, Non-ASL, Oral school, Hearing Parents, blah blah.
You all deaf/ASL/non-speak have to accept what hearing parents have a
right to make a decision the best for deaf child/children. You all are
continue controlling controlling controlling hearing parents and
AGBELL. You all are still dividers, bullied, discriminated, JEALOUS,
blah blah. Please SHUT UP and ACCEPT. AGBELL will never die !!!!!! You
all can’t break the walls down. AGBELL is very strong company for many
years. You hear me. *sigh*
April 7, 2008 at 9:42 am
You talk about breaking down walls and building bridges, but then you
ay it has to be only on your terms, that we accept that all deaf
children learn ASL and that that is the best and only way to go. I’ve
told you that I do not agree with that but that I respect the rights of
others to hold varying beliefs. Most of all, I respect all parents who
commit themselves 100% to their children regardless of the approach
that they choose. You, on the other hand, tell me and others who hold
my belief in the pure AV approach that we are wrong and that there can
be no bridges unless we say you are right. What this says to me is that
you are the ones making that wall even higher. There can be no bridges
without respect and acceptance.
April 7, 2008 at 10:27 am
Linda, I am only against the idea of not allowing Deaf children to be
exposed to ASL and nothing else. Please don’t twist the words about
what you said about me.
Your comments made me laugh because there is no way that we all ever
got to control hearing parents like we really have the power? Come on,
get real! AG Bell is a rich, dominant organization who actually have
their claws on the parents more than a socio-linguistic minority group
of the Deaf. Too often, the parents are not being fully informed of the
options and that is my beef. By the way, I can see that you have severe
grammatical errors in your comments and you are oral? Hmmm..no more
comments.
Candy, you don’t even know half of the facts about DBC. There is a lot
of strategic planning going on that focus on reaching out to parents.
You need to realize that DBC is at an infancy stage and a lot of growth
and re-framing have been happening. DBC is having a first annual
educational conference this year welcoming prominent speakers who will
hare more details about bilingual education. It will empower the Deaf
community to be more involved in their local community to give parents
of Deaf babies more support. DBC has been working hard to raise the
awareness of the needs of Deaf babies. It doesn’t make sense to
advocate hearing babies to sign and to deny Deaf babies not to sign.
Research shows that hearing babies being exposed to signs have more
benefits and it does apply to Deaf babies as research shows.
Melissa, I never said for you to accept all Deaf children learn ASL and
that is the best and only way to go. All I am saying is to expose both
ASL and auditory/verbal training to all Deaf children (if applicable).
I am a product of both and I consider myself successful. It is a myth
that ASL hinders language development but you continue to cling on this
concept which is the problem that a bridge cannot be built.
April 7, 2008 at 10:33 am
My english wasn’t great when i was using oral/SEE/TC….then when i
learned ASL–my english was much improved….so oral/SEE/TC are out!!!my
parents once believed AGB but that was in 1967 when i became deaf at
age 2 by spinal meningitis….they didn’t know what to do with me…now my
entire hearing family are signing pretty good & they realized & they
ee ASL is a MUST..i thanked tham for believing in ASL—not AGB!!!!!
April 7, 2008 at 10:38 am
April 7, 2008 at 10:40 am
Candy, you said that most of us support DBC are a product of TC just as
I was!
That may be true since ASL was an oppressed language that many MCE
methods were used back in the 70′s/80′s. The TC philosophy has shown
unsatisfactory rate of success since the methods used are not
considered a language. Many research documents shifted to the use of
Bi-Bi philosophy in the classroom showing more promising results. This
is what DBC is advocating for and many of the members were former
orals, former TC users, etc. who discovered ASL wished that they had
acquired ASL during critical language learning period (ages 0-3) that
would help them increase better literacy skills.
April 7, 2008 at 10:59 am
Will you admit and accept that there are many children who thrive with
the AV approach who never learn or need ASL? I certainly have two
living in my own house and could introduce you to many many more.
April 7, 2008 at 11:09 am
Barb
Ok, let’s take out “the only way to go”. What exactly are you saying if
you don’t believe ALL Deaf children should learn ASL? Once you add ASL
to AVT® it is no longer AVT. So where do you support AVT®?
April 7, 2008 at 11:15 am
“All I am saying is to expose both ASL and auditory/verbal training to
all Deaf children (if applicable).”
Even though my parents do not expose ASL to my sister and me in our
household, that doesn’t mean that we can’t shut our eyes and not see
ASL whenever we incidentally come across it in public. I went to a
middle school where there was a large number of deaf students using
ASL, and my parents never told me not to look at them.
Is that what you’re trying to say? You just don’t want parents to get
angry at their deaf children with CIs for seeing ASL in any public
places that they could come across by accident? I understand that there
are some parents who will immediately pull their children away from
anyone who uses ASL whenever they come across them by accident.
However, my parents were never like that when I was growing up.
ChrisH
April 7, 2008 at 11:53 am
“DBC, Barb Digi, Deaf/ASL/non-speak are still dicriminated Against
AGBELL, school, Hearing Parents, blah blah.”
Your information is wrong.
ASL gifts for CI, Non-ASL, Oral, their families and interpreters. CI
and Oral are always Deaf.
April 7, 2008 at 12:21 pm
Hmmmm…
I would NOT say that “DBC, Barb Digi, [etc]… discriminated against
AGBell…” The way I see it, Barb was discussing her beliefs which are
backed up by the resources. Same goes for Rachel standing by her
beliefs which are backed up by the resources. Actually, BOTH Barb and
Rachel are right… OR wrong, depending on where we are coming from. I am
not saying who is right or wrong ;o)
Yes, I did notice a few heated statements (regarding the word
“respect”.)
So let’s find the common ground. We all want the best for the deaf
Then make a compromise. ASL AND (NOT vs) AVT. How can we make them work
together like tango? It seems AGBell and DBC are at odds with each
other, sooo… what is the solution?
Open-minded Deaf person
April 7, 2008 at 12:48 pm
Hi commentators,
I am not surprised that there are 150 comments.
As a former anti-CI whiner like some current commentators above who
advocate for bi-lingual education approach, I have often seen or
associate with many failures of CIers at the school but I have never
associated with successful CIers.
Bi-lingual educational philosophy was established at about almost same
time when CI was first announced. Even Gallaudet President Now occured
right before the new innovations. Indeed I opposed CI for babies or
children as I felt being offended for being ASL Deaf. “I am fine, why
fix me? I feel that I am no good in eyes of people who advocate for CI
for babies or children.” That statement was how I often told my reason
for opposing CI for babies or children. I was hoping for the failure of
CIers but I swallowed so hard after learning that more prelingual CIers
are able to function expressively and receptively like hearing people.
Not only that, their academic intelligence level is par with hearing
peers. Last of all, they are so happy which matters me the most. Once
CI children master their spoken language, they are automatically
enrolled at hearing classes without any interpreter but they use
portable soundfield system.
I remember very well that there was a newspaper article from CI expert
at John Hopkins University that it costs cheaper to have CI for babies
in long term. I disagreed until I learned about more successes of
prelingual CIers than ever. Now I agree with the article that it is
cheaper to invest on prelingual CIers than prelingual non-CIers. Why?
No need interpreter….as they are able to function at hearing school
well.
I am an educated ASL Deaf person but I don’t live independently because
I lack my skills in spoken language that I have to depend on
interpreters so often. For your info, successful prelingual deaf CIers
can be my interpreters if they want to. Hence, interpreters are my
leeches in life in aural/oral settings such as doctor visits, workshops
and many more.
Therefore prelingual deaf CIers are more marketable than prelingual ASL
deaf people like me since they have lot of choices than mine such as
universities or career they want to go. They can be teachers of hearing
tudents while I can’t because I need a leech which cost
insubordinately high. The job opportunities are greater for prelingual
deaf CIers than prelingual Deaf users.
So hearing parents of deaf babies see me as hopeless citizen even
though I have a college degree because I lack my spoken language.
Therefore, almost all of them choose CI for their babies.
It is a sad fact that the number of deaf population at schools for the
deaf have been drastically declining especially intelligent deaf
tudents. I hate to see this reality as I cherished my time at deaf
chool. What should I do? I have to accept and move on.
Rachel’s blog really hit me so hard that educate me about the lives of
uccessful prelingual CIers as I can see that she has nothing to hide
about the dark side of CI even though she had to have another surgery
to replace the deficit part. It is amazing that she accept to go
through pain to fix her CI. It tells me that she cannot live without
the breeze of sounds and discuss how beautiful the sounds are. I am
living in a fish bowl watching how people enjoy the breeze of sounds
uch as noises from animals or music that I cannot understand.
For DBC, I challenge you. Will attendees be majority group of hearing
parents who have prelingual Deaf ASL people, prelingual Deaf ASL of
hearing parents and prelingual Deaf ASL deficit CIers of hearing
parents? Do Deaf people of Deaf people have rights to tell deaf
children of hearing parents how to raise their children where ASL is
hardly accessible in their home environment? Why are you following AGB
convention? It tells me that your organization is a tail of AGB so you
have to follow where AGB convention. Therefore you are leech of AGB.
Last of all, can you survive in the world without leech(interpeters)? I
advise you not to follow AGB or you are fools. CI are here to stay
forever and I hate to say that Deaf Culture is getting smaller and
Before I stop keying, I, an ASL Deaf educator of hearing parents, tell
you that I love ASL Deaf people but you know that there are times that
we, ASL Deaf people with lack of spoken language, are frustrated
because we are Deaf…no..no..I mean…we have to depend on
leeches(interpreters). I know some of you and I am not going to tell
you who I am. I admit that I envy for better opportunity and technology
for today deaf children that we have never had. So it is time to
wallow so hard, move on and do something better things than hounding
on AGB people.
April 7, 2008 at 12:51 pm
Melissa, all I know coming from research and Raychelle’s v/blogs is
that 1/3 of CI children “fail” from AVT. Really, I am happy that the
remaining number which seems to be more than a majority is successful.
It is not my issue about this success group but about the remaining 1/3
who did not make it. If they all were exposed to ASL, I bet the numbers
will show even more success in mastering English. These unfortunate 1/3
of AVT kids could have continued to succeed at least with written
English.
California Grandma: I experienced AVT and ASL when growing up. There is
no need to pick one over another.
Rachel: What I am trying to say since the beginning that there will be
more benefits when Deaf babies acquire ASL as a first language and
learn to listen and speak (if applicable) as they mature with vocal
chords. when you said that there are some parents who will immediately
pull their children away from anyone who uses ASL and this is an act of
prejudice. Prejudice is taught and learned, not born with it. It makes
me wonder what kind of message are they getting? It is my intention to
break down the barriers that exposing AVT children to ASL is not going
to “ruin” their speech or language development. I am really glad that
your parents are not like that by “blocking you” from using ASL since
it is your choice. You obviously feel comfortable with that and that
you were granted to make a choice. But what I don’t quite understand is
that your mother is being biased since she clearly supported a research
tatement that ASL hinders language development and that may have
influenced her to raise you when thinking that way.
April 7, 2008 at 1:02 pm
“But what I don’t quite understand is that your mother is being biased
ince she clearly supported a research statement that ASL hinders
language development and that may have influenced her to raise you when
thinking that way.”
She is saying that she believes that if the child LEARNS ASL while
learning to hear and speak will hinder the language development. The
reason is because if my parents and I took the time to learn ASL, it
would take our time away from my learning to develop good auditory
kills and speech skills. Every minute of the day was crucial for me to
learn hearing and speech as my hearing was not as perfect as other
normal hearing people, and she just simply didn’t want that to be taken
away.
April 7, 2008 at 1:04 pm
well,open-minded Deaf person, then tell AGB people included you to
leave DBC people alone…do your job and we do ours…but i support ASL/AVT
for CI users we will not abandon them who is failing to hear &
peak…period…thats why its our job to fight for our future Deaf
children with CI so ASL needs to be provided
April 7, 2008 at 1:06 pm
How can ASL be a deaf baby’s first language and spoken English their
econd language and, at the same time, have them master spoken English,
and I’m talking about language and speech, to the same degree that AV
children do? There are very few hearing people who are as fluent in a
econd language as they are in their native language. You will have to
provide me with significant research studies out of institutions other
than Gallaudet or RIT to convince me that, somehow, deaf children whose
hearing is their weaker sense, can somehow fully master spoken English
as a second language.
As I said, I consider mastery of spoken English to include language and
peech, not just written language, because the fact remains that we are
a hearing and speaking society. This is not prejudice but fact. I am
very thankful that my girls developed very clear and natural speech
because I strongly feel that it makes their lives in the hearing world
easier. If they were relegated to written English, Jessica would not be
attending the private school where she currently is thriving, and
Rachel would not be the Features Editor of her college newspaper
because, in order to do so, she needs to communicate orally both in
person and on the phone with the rest of the newspaper staff.
As a hearing parent who did my research into the various approaches
early on by meeting parents and children in person who were using the
various approaches, I can tell you that even then, 20 years ago, there
was no comparison. Now, with the CI, there are even more AV children
like those I met 20 years ago. As I said before, hearing parents are
going to meet kids like Rachel and Jessica, and, because they can hear
these children and speak with them, the choice will be obvious. Your
approach is going to be a very hard sell for any hearing parents who do
their research by meeting kids in the various approaches.
Finally, you ask about the 1/3. Where is the research data showing that
1/3 of children who work with Certified A-V therapists following the
actual A-V approach, ie not a Cert AVT working in a school for the deaf
(I personally know one who fits that description) are not successful?
My personal experience is around 5%, and those 5% are identified early
and guided into other programs that are a better fit for them.
April 7, 2008 at 1:09 pm
To Open Minded Deaf person, it is hard for me to take your words
eriously since you remain to be anonymous and has no credibility.
Anyone can say that and pretend to be someone else. Unlike me, I don’t
hide my identity and many people know who I am.
As for your questions addressing DBC, allow me to answer them. We are
just forming and it is not even one year old. There are a lot of
uccess stories when it comes to DBC rallies at places where it
advocates AVT only. You would be surprised how many people including
attendees of AG Bell seeing the flyers with research statements showing
how ASL benefits Deaf babies. It is all about educating the public and
the attendees and there is nothing wrong with that. The registration is
free and OPEN to all parents. DBC has been working on developing more
ervices to provide parents support to learn ASL. Please see my blog:
DBC is not in the business to tell hearing parents how to raise their
children in ASL environment but to INFORM them about research facts of
using ASL in their home.
Also, don’t think that DBC is against the idea for children to speak.
It is ideal for Deaf children to have ASL, intelligible speech (if
applicable and high writing skills. This AVT service is against ASL. It
is not about for DBC to be against CI. Please don’t rush to judgment
before you make such statements. Read more about DBC and talk with one
of the members, can you? Show me how open minded you are.
It is funny how you call interpreters and DBC leeches. I am laughing so
hard because it is so far-fetched! Hey, come one and let’s suck the
blood out of you that will give you more health benefits!
ASL-AVT
April 7, 2008 at 1:17 pm
What??? (Gasp!) Barb, you said to Melissa “All I am saying is to expose
both ASL and auditory/verbal training to all Deaf children (if
applicable). I am a product of both and I consider myself successful.”
I always thought you were a product of ASL/ORAL, but I never knew until
you told Melissa that you are a product of ASL/AVT. Since you make an
emphasis that you are a ***successful*** AVT product, why not seize a
golden opportunity to be implanted to hear people speak, laugh, cry,
ing? “Two best worlds” is better than one world!
April 7, 2008 at 1:29 pm
Rachel, you know it is a funny thing because I am thinking the
opposite. Since ASL is an accessible language for ALL Deaf babies, this
hould be used first because at that time babies are not ready to
develop auditory skills and speech skills until 18 months or so. It is
much more beneficial from birth to that time to expose ASL and by the
time babies are ready to speak and listen, they will have a lot more
chances to develop a better spoken language. See research statements
here:
“Baby’s brains that are exposed to a second language and learn it, such
as ASL, develop further than baby’s brains that are not exposed to a
econd language (Snoddon). Teaching babies ASL can also help develop
the eyes sooner in young children. This is because ASL is a very visual
language and taking in information causes you to use the right side of
your brain. While other languages that are not as visual as ASL causes
you to use the left side of your brain. Babies who learn ASL are
actually using both sides of the brain which causes building of
ynapses (Snoddon).
Children who are taught sign language has demonstrated better spelling
and larger vocabularies than children who did not learn sign language.
They also have a tendency to show better speech and communication
kills.
Baby’s brains that are exposed to a second language and learn it, such
ynapses (Snoddon). Children who are taught sign language has
demonstrated better spelling and larger vocabularies than children who
did not learn sign language. They also have a tendency to show better
peech and communication skills.
Anne Websdale, a spokesperson for the deaf and hard of hearing
ervices, has suggested that not only does signing help with language
development but it can also help improve parent baby bonding (Saccone,
2005). Children also find it fun to learn sign language because it uses
movement and they may pay attention more. This causes the motor parts
of the body to develop much sooner than the mouth. Sign language can
also help improve IQ scores and advancement in scores on English parts
of exams.
Learning how to sign is only an advantage for the child. It could NOT
hurt their language development, it can only help. Not only can it help
with language development but the child will also be bilingual at such
a young age. Knowing ASL is also an advantage if the child were to come
about a deaf child or adult. The child will be able to communicate with
the child or adult and it can also be helpful in the child’s future as
they continue to grow and choose a profession. The world is full of
diverse individuals and knowing a second language can only benefit the
child.”
There are many more research documents proving that so please feel free
to read more about it.
April 7, 2008 at 1:36 pm
Ha, funny you ASL-AVT! CI at my age was not reliable and completely
available. What’s more, I was able to hear well with my hearing aid on
my left ear that I considered myself hearing the same as CI wearers do
but I won’t be eligible to be a CI recipient anyway. Oh yes I can even
hear laughs, cries, bird chirping and what-nots but it is not as
important as having strong written English skills. I grew up in a
public school without interpreters or leeches as Open Minded Deaf
person put at it (*chuckling!*) but I also grew up using ASL as my
first language and I can verify that ASL does not hinder language
development.
You can read more about me at
April 7, 2008 at 1:42 pm
Hey Barb,
You’re a member of DGB so is John. We’re listening. We’re talking to
you. I believe that’s open minded enough. I can be open minded and not
agree with you. I don’t think changing my son’s program is a
prerequisite. Are you saying that only if AVT no longer exists and
parents like myself stop using AVT will mean we’re open minded??
AVT will not add ASL to the program. The program works as it stands. In
education, there is not one particular methodology. In educating the
deaf, there is not one particular methodology. You’re 1/3 stat is
unsubstantiated. That’s just not going to cut it here. So I will say
this again. I support your decision to provide bi-bi approach to your
child and to advocate for it. It doesn’t mean I will do this with my
own child. That does not mean I’m “against” it. I support a parent’s
right to teach their child English and French. It doesn’t mean I’m
going to do this with my own child. The problem here, Barb, lies the
fact that you and DBC will not make parents like me use ASL as my
child’s primary language. It’s not going to happen. You’re not going to
change AVT. It’s not going to happen. If I were a parent you knew
personally, and my child was deprived in any way, I’d expect you to say
omething. He’s not. The others I know are not. There is no reason for
you and DBC to try to dictate here on this blog what we should do with
our children. Enough is enough. Don’t comeback and say….oh we’re (DBC)
going to keep trying to build bridges with open-minded parents…..We
have chosen a different path for our children and as many have pointed
out it’s ok.
And now that you say you were raised AVT and ASL. Tell us about the AVT
program you were in under the guidance of a certified AVT therapist.
The goal of AVT is to provide spoken language as the primary language.
So this met the needs of your family? I was assuming that being born
into a deaf family would mean that of course you would want ASL to be
your primary language? There has been a family with a hearing impaired
mom and a hearing dad at our center. The mom wasn’t able to provide the
needed language model, but she still wanted this program for her child.
The grandmother and father provided the AVT training for the child. She
of course spoke to her child and provided imput throughout the day. It
worked great. She just needed help to get it all done. So please do
explain, how you were provided this therapy?
April 7, 2008 at 1:50 pm
I have to say something…
As a deaf mother of two deaf children (son as a late-deafened child and
daughter as a hard of hearing child), I have seen at how ASL really
benefits my daughter who has excellent speaking skills (not perfect,
but she can easily talk to neighbors and the neighbors easily
understand her… something I lack.) And her first language is ASL even
though she ENJOYS going to the speech therapy at ISD. She does not have
a CI (she does not need it, since she has plenty of residential
hearing.) My son… is a different story… his first language is English
and he has near perfect speaking skills and his auditory skills are
excellent. BUT… as he matures, he sees the need to rely more on visual
aids (he uses CAN and he was really upset at being informed that his
ASL interpreter was being let go.)
There are always some degrees of visual and aural skills in the deaf
children… The deaf babies tend to be more visual, so their first
tendency is to manipulate things visually. That I understand…That is
why I feel exposing deaf babies to ASL or any kinds of visual cues is
the main key to the development of cognitive skills. IF combined with
AVT (how it works, I don’t know…), it could help develop auditory
kills better… not hindering language development at all. Maybe the
timing and application of AVT and ASL, etc. without overwhelming the
deaf babies’ brains?
Also, there is more research that ASL does help improve the speaking
kills (in older children… but… it is something to look into.)
Again, as we all know… there is a need for a lot of involvement in the
deaf child’s life to ensure the success… CI or not. Let’s say the deaf
child could benefit greatly from having BOTH visual and aural
kills…ASL and AVT/oral?
Remember I am not a professional. Just my opinion. I am not taking any
ides… all the sides have points and it is a matter of fitting the
puzzles together…
April 7, 2008 at 2:06 pm
Karen Mays,
I see the same as u do. I believe that by building the bridges and to
prevent any children from falling through the cracks is to working
together by providing AVT and ASL.
It doesnt do anyone any good by saying no to the ASL/AVT approach
becuase it will just continue to divide everyone even further. I do not
like to see that.
If u had asked me 15 years ago, I would have agreed with Rachel and
Melissa on everything but as I learned ASL and became involved with the
Deaf community, my views changed. I see the value in ASL. I wonder if
they learned ASL, would their views change? Who knows?
Great posts, Barb! :)
April 7, 2008 at 2:26 pm
I keep reading something in this post that has been referred to often
and is not being directly addressed here. I understand where Barb DiGi
and Karen are coming from, one as an ASL Deaf adult of Deaf parents and
the other as a Deaf mom to two HOH children who have developed auditory
kills and use ASL as an additional language.
Keep in mind that 90 to 95% of deaf children are born to hearing
parents. I’m one such example. There are three other siblings, all
hearing, in my family. My parents had their hands full aplenty, raising
four kids, dealing with my deafness and communication issues, in
addition to another sister who had psychological problems and was a
major handful to raise as well.
Do you think such hearing parents would have had the time to learn a
new language(ASL)between speech clinic sessions, the merry-go-round of
psychiatrist appointments, my dad’s job which entailed some traveling,
and raising four kids? Sheesh, I’ve often wondered how they did it at
all.
There is so much time in the day and today it is far more common for
both parents to be working jobs in addition to raising children, deaf
or hearing. I’m not saying here that CI’s and AVT are the easy way out,
that indeed such a decision for a deaf child requires parental
involvement and commitment in order for this process to be successful.
I can also see how implementing ASL requires a time commitment on the
part of hearing parents to learn and then teach their deaf child this
language in the home. This is probably time the parents can’t even
pare, that’s the dilemma. Not to mention that they also need to give
time for other kids, if any, in the family.
April 7, 2008 at 2:40 pm
Hey back to you mom2boys: It is DBC not DGB by the way. There are a few
things I need to have some points straightened out. We both are here
discussing our points of views not DBC or me to dictate the blog as you
have indicated. I am appreciative for us to have a dialogue and to me,
it is what it takes to be open minded as long as we treat each other
with respect. All I want is to have you to recognize that there are
research facts showing the benefits of ASL as a first language
acquisition rather than shunning this language out of Deaf children’s
lives because of the fear that it will hurt or hinder Deaf child’s
language development. I consider myself open minded here because I am
not shunning anything as I strongly support all approaches but to see
how one bashes or blames on ASL for hindering language development or
reducing the success rate on AVT is where I need to jump in because I
wanted to show that it is a myth.
AVT will not add ASL to the program is wrong to me but right to you. I
am here presenting the facts why AVT should add ASL but you kept on
denying that it will be beneficial. Flash news for you: The program
DOES NOT ALWAYS work which is why we are concerned. We care much about
Deaf babies and want the best for them.
I don’t have the research documents here with me about how 1/3
tatistic results came in but I can tell you the source that I have
learned came from Raychelle’s blog. Let’s say it is true, would you
upport bi-bi approach to begin with? I am not talking about your child
or mine but about these kids who are not achieving under AVT program.
It is like taking a gamble because there are always kids who don’t
achieve under AVT and it is best for them to already have a strong
language foundation, ASL, that is, to help them achieve building a
bridge to English.
Again, let me emphasize that DBC is not going to tell parents how to
raise their children but to inform them the facts and benefits about
ASL because too often this has not been shared equally by doctors,
audiologists, early interventionists, etc. Too many parents are
clueless about the facts of raising their Deaf child(ren) bilingually.
It is a matter of voicing and that parents have the right to know ALL
choices.
You tone in the middle is not necessary. DBC will always build bridges
with parents especially who have open minds since they are more
receptive to the information that is presented. No where did DBC said
about not building bridges with parents who support us advocating bi-bi
(like you said) but they have decided to chose a different path as long
as it works for their Deaf child(ren).
Well, I believe the term, AVT, wasn’t officially coined at that time
when I was little but the practices were similar to today’s AVT that I
have to practice listening the words without lipreading and without
igning when being immersed in spoken language environment. I grew up
with a Deaf family but with hearing grandparents so the goal had always
been mastering spoken language and ASL just like my Deaf sister’s. We
always play around with spoken English and ASL. We are able to sign
ongs in ASL when listening to the lyrics. We both won first place for
best talent when signing songs in the state pageant for the Deaf. I am
always grateful to have the best of both worlds and what is wrong with
that?
Thank you, Karen, for adding your perspective.
April 7, 2008 at 2:42 pm
Ahhh… I am like you, Ann_C… I was born to a hearing family and attended
Central Institute for the Deaf (nope, I don’t have any bad memories… in
fact, I enjoyed CID and I was not happy to having to go mainstreaming.
:o) ) Well, my hearing parents were very involved in my education.
So I do understand the need for CI by hearing families. I understand
that there are many different approaches and that one size shoe DOES
NOT FIT all… that I understand. However, we are seeing the rising
numbers of successful ASL users and CI users so it would be nice seeing
ome kind of partnership there. But yes, we live in a hearing society
numbers of mainstreaming deaf children, etc.
I don’t know… but Ann_C, yup, there are factors for the families who
feel they do not need ASL.
April 7, 2008 at 2:53 pm
To respond to Ann C’s concern about parents using ASL:
Parents don’t have to be fluent in ASL right away since there are many
parenting tools for communication through the use of ASL. See my blog:
Like Mark Drolz at
http://www.deaf-culture-online.com/baby-sign-language.html said, ” No,
you do not have to put in the 5-10 years it takes to become fluent in
ASL–just 100 or so signs will be enough for your baby. Nonetheless,
it’s best if those signs come from an actual language. ASL has so much
more to offer than any system of made-up baby signs.
First of all, if your baby sign language program incorporates ASL,
you’ll be on the same page as countless other parents and their babies.
You’ll be able to sign with them and they’ll be able to sign with you.
Second, this is a wonderful opportunity to expose your baby to another
language and a culture. We all know that the younger you are, the
easier it is for you to master more languages, musical instruments, and
old dog new tricks”). This is an exciting, stimulating way to engage
your baby’s mind. Would you rather do so with a made-up set of baby
igns, or an actual language, ASL?”
The Signing Time series teaches more than 75 signs and exposes you to
over a hundred is an example of one of the communication tools.
April 7, 2008 at 2:56 pm
Oh, let me tell you something… Barb DOES sing. She’d tune the car’s
radio station, and then she’d find it, and then she’d sing the song…
he has a good ear for the lyrics. That was when I lived in Rochester,
NY.
Now she is engaged to a deaf musician… so music is very much part of
her life ;o) So she is correct in stating that she grew up similar to
the way CI children are growing up now.
April 7, 2008 at 2:58 pm
Barb, you said: “It doesn’t make sense to advocate hearing babies to
ign and to deny Deaf babies not to sign.” That’s true and I agree with
it but what does it have to do with AVT? There are still many parents
out there that have not implanted their child and are using the oral
method – I can see where you might want to advocate towards these
parents.
What you and I went through with speech therapy years ago is nothing
like AVT at all. So, we shouldn’t be comparing that.
I agree that to expose ASL to babies is an excellent idea. But, parents
who decide to implant their child should stick to practices that have
been found to benefit C.I. to its fullest potential.
Are you insinuating that parents of C.I. Child should consider ASL in
addition to AVT? Because if that is the case, it wouldn’t be AVT at all
o…why bother to push this idea of incorporating ASL with AVT?
April 7, 2008 at 3:06 pm
Hmmm…
I know that ASL helps improve the aural skills… but for older students.
But are there any research that adding ASL to AVT have been shown some
benefits to the babies from birth to 3 years old? If the links have
been added, I am sorry, don’t you mind putting up the links again? I
did go over http://aslci.blogspot.com/ and I did see that K.L. posted
about it, but that is from her personal view. So are there any
professional research?
April 7, 2008 at 3:11 pm
Thought maybe some would be interesting to read this;
MAC and IBM Computer – Same? – Different?
Deaf and Hearing people – Same? – Different?
This is my analogy about how Deaf and Hearing adults or children or
babies are created differently just like a Mac or IBM. They, hearing
and deaf people are the same in very way just like a Mac or IBM. But
the only difference is the software program. The software disc that you
put in the Mac or IBM computer got data information that the Mac or IBM
understands what it written(embedded) in it and functions according how
you communicate with the keyboard. The software disc could be Word
processor program, accounting program, video game program, drawing
program like Photoshop, etc.
Hearing and Deaf people are human bionic-computers. Before I go any
further explaining more about what I will write on this post, you might
ask this question, what is a bionic-computer?
Bionic-computer is a human being that its brain can compute to do
things such as like calculating the coordination while walking or
picking things up, etc. Your brain is always computing like a
calculator doing the adding, subtracting, etc while controlling your
balance, reaching for something, jumping or hopping over something,
etc.
No one was born as a full functioning bionic-computer human being. Keep
in mind that we all had to learn to crawl, walk, talk, sign, run,
respond, think, etc since the day we were born. Our parents were the
main educators, motivators, etc in the beginning of our lives. Then
teachers, your peers, people, media, TV, etc became additional
educators, motivators, etc. This process is the education of our
bionic-computer body(mind) that goes on until the day we die.
One more thing that I want to say about the terminology of the two
words;
Software and Hardware.
The computer that you are using right now while reading this post is
call hardware.
The disc that you put in the computer contains data so you can watch
movies or video game or Microsoft Word is call software.
The Human Bionic-Computer is the hardware of the human anatomy. This
would include the brain, internal organs, and other human organ systems
uch as Cardiovascular, Endocrine, Immune, Muscular, nervous,
Reproductive, Respiratory, Skeletal and Urinary systems.
Your bionic-computer has stored program properties and self-
metaprogramming properties, with limits determinable and to be
determined.
You might ask, what is metaprogramming??
Metaprogram is defined as a set of instructions, descriptions and means
of control of sets of program.
How did we get the metaprogramming properties?
You got them since the day you were born, from your parents, teachers,
etc. It is the software education that you have and it is stored in
your brain.
Now, let’s go back a little about what I wrote above;
The bionic-computer has stored program properties and self-
You might ask, what you mean by with limits determinable and to be
determined.?It means that it depends on how you have been educated, how
much data flow you have gotten or able to receive from your parents or
teachers in early childhood, etc.
It could also means that it depends on if you are deaf or hearing. In
this society now days, a deaf person will have a good chance to get
into the phrase of with limits determinable and to be determined.
This is very, very important to keep this in mind as you read on in my
post.
The title of this post is
This is the same as if I had said,
Deaf and Hearing Babies – Same? – Different?
What is really the different between a Mac and IBM computer?
They both look alike, same hardware, functions the same. They both have
low level, average level and high level performance.
Just like in the society, we have low level, average level and high
level minded human beings. You might ask, why do we have three
levels.?With the computers (Mac/IBM), it depends on the speed of
calculating, the amount of ram memory and the software program.?With
human being (bionic-computer), it depends on the early childhood of
language foundation, how much you’ve learned the software program.
You might ask, what was our human software program?
Well, for a hearing baby, it was the data flow of informations that
enter through the ears.
And for the deaf baby, it was the data flow of informations that enter
through the eyes.
This means that the hearing baby and the deaf baby, both have different
type of software input for eyes or ears.
The software makes our bionic-computer to function and the more data
flow of informations that each receives through its eyes or ears, will
categorize each of us accordingly as low level, average level or high
level minded person.
Macintosh are the Deaf baby.
IBM are the Hearing baby.
Hearing and Deaf babies, both require different software to be able
function for its highest potential capability to learn… the earlier,
the better.
This is why Deaf babies and children must have bilingual education-
ASL/English(reading and writing) to be able learn to achieve the level
at its highest potential capability.
These Eye software input bilingual education program are for babies
that don’t have the natural Ear software input capability.
Over the years, we, the deaf people, or should I say, the Mac computers
have been using the IBM “ear” software indoctrinated by the
o-call-experts ( i.e. AGBell ) thinking that we deaf (Mac) people
could hear and speak 100% like hearing (IBM) people.
The Deaf babies have been deprived of having the use of appropriated
oftware program to be able to function fully like hearing babies since
1880.
Parents of Deaf children need to grasp this simple concept.
Well, I couldn’t get to publish my comments to respond to Ann C since
it is not coming out. You can always visit my blog at
http://www.barbdigi.com to continue the dialogue since I don’t want to
“dictate” Rachel’s blog as being accused by one of the commenters. So
long!
April 7, 2008 at 3:17 pm
Thought some of you be interesting reading this;
You might ask, what is metaprogramming?
It means that it depends on how you have been educated, how much data
flow you have gotten or able to receive from your parents or teachers
in early childhood, etc.
level minded human beings. You might ask, why do we have three levels.
With the computers (Mac/IBM), it depends on the speed of calculating,
the amount of ram memory and the software program.
With human being (bionic-computer), it depends on the early childhood
of language foundation, how much you’ve learned the software program.
April 7, 2008 at 3:19 pm
Oops,
Please delete the last two “Deaf and Hearing people – Same? –
Different?”
Thank you
I’ve asked for the same thing. I was told if ASL was added to AVT, it
wouldn’t be AVT at all. Karen, did you read the latest PDF research
link that Melissa provided? I suggest you read it.
Fact here is if I had a deaf child, I would not go the CI route at all
imply because deaf genes runs in my family and I’m comfortable with Bi
Bi approach for now. I might even add AVT too if my child has residual
hearing. I might even throw in hearing aids since it works great for
me. But, that’s me, based on my experience and based on my family’s
genetic deafness. WE know what to do.
But, for parents who do not know ASL and who have done research and
decided they want to go CI route. It has been proven that in order for
CI to be successful for the purpose that it was intended to be, AVT
needs to be part of it and that ASL should not be exposed.
There’s no way a parent can go back to the providers and complain if
the implant didn’t work since they didn’t follow the recommended
practice.
Same with any medical procedures. If you don’t follow what is
recommended, then you can’t expect things to work out the way its
upposed to.
April 7, 2008 at 3:23 pm
AVT stands for Auditory Verbal Training, this means it is based on 100%
auditory so I do not understand how ASL can fit in with the AVT
process. If you added ASL to it, then it is no longer AVT because it
would not be 100% auditory based. It would have a different name to the
method used so it is my opinion that trying to add ASL to the AVT
process its basically a moot point.
The bigger question is whether AVT is the best method for CI implantees
and thats where I want to see an unbiased research document, because as
I said earlier, if it is 50.1% success, then that number just isnt good
enough for me and if that number was applied to hearing people, you
would see an outcry in Congress over it.
What I was trying to promote earlier is the fact that baby signs are
used before the AVT process begins so the baby starts the language
development at an earlier age and as the AVT process is used over time
there is a transition where baby signs, which is based on ASL, are
weaned away as the child is able to communicate back verbally. Of
course, if the child liked ASL enough and wants continue to use it,
then feel free to do so.
Now there are some comments/questions that I wanted to respond/ask to
ince my last post.
hear, considering you’re in Atlanta, it has me wondering if your girls
peak with a southern drawl and/or accent?
urprised if AVT programs actually existed when you were a child
although I can understand if you say you were a product of an oral
education program but was it actually AVT? We’re talking about two
different “schools of thought” here.
and my hat is off to you, a clarification needs to be made in this
comment. “If they were relegated to written English, Jessica would not
be attending the private school where she currently is thriving, and
person and on the phone with the rest of the newspaper staff.”
There are deaf children who’s primary mode of communication is ASL and
they do attend private schools, and this includes some of the most
prestigious colleges in the country. As for being an editor, someone
please correct me if I am wrong here, but I somewhat recall reading
omewhere that there were actually many deaf editors of newspapers
before the Milan conference in 1880? We are living in the age of
technology where emails are used just as easily as a phone call. I just
wanted to bring this up because your statement could possibly lead
others to beleiver that signers would not be able to do the equivalency
and they are indeed capable of doing so.
On the flip side of the same coin, I know of several successful hearing
businessmen, but their written English is quite below par. They rely on
their speaking abilities and often referred to being “street-smart” and
they usually try to avoid emails because they are too embarassed about
their written English.
April 7, 2008 at 3:30 pm
Barb – disgrard my last question, you answered it in #175 as I was
typing my last response.
April 7, 2008 at 3:36 pm
Thanks, Candy… I am looking for it now….
April 7, 2008 at 3:46 pm
In Ontario, Canada, there are AVT therapists who tell parents that if
they expose their babies to ASL, they will be kicked OFF their client
lists. There are MANY parents who would love to provide both ASL and
AVT therapy for their babies, but are often intimidated. They either
toe the AVT line, OR hire ASL tutors on the sly so their AVT therapists
don’t find out and boot them off their client list.
If that is not coercion, and not telling parents how to raise their
Deaf children, I don’t know what it is. That is why I, as a Deaf
educator, see CI students who have not benefitted from AVT therapy fall
through the cracks. Those children have not had the benefit of ASL as a
afety net. Too many children in USA experience the same lack of
exposure to ASL even when implanted and struggle with AVT therapy.
DBC has been formed to ensure that children are able to receive the
benefits of ASL even with CI and AVT training. I am opposed to AVT as
the ONLY venue to language for children. Parents can expose their
children to AVT therapy, but please DO NOT deprive them of ASL as a
first or second language. I do not believe that ASL harms the
development of spoken English. Read the research material that Barb has
provided.
Questions to Melissa who stated, “You will have to provide me with
ignificant research studies out of institutions other than Gallaudet
or RIT to convince me that, somehow, deaf children whose hearing is
their weaker sense, can somehow fully master spoken English as a second
Do you realize that Gallaudet and RIT are places that SPECIALIZES in
Deaf Education and Deaf-related topics? Are you saying that Gallaudet
and RIT research information are not good enough for you? Are you
aying that you would have more respect for that research IF they came
from hearing universities that have NO expertise in the field? Please
clarify your position. I sincerely want to know.
Shel
April 7, 2008 at 4:26 pm
Some of you are hollering, “One Size Shoe DOES NOT FIT All”
EXACTLY!
Back in 1880 Milan along with AG Bell wanted “Oral Only Method”, which
hould have applied to the natural language(ASL) of the Deaf but
instead, they eliminated it totally. And got rid of all the Deaf
teachers.
Just where some of you get that concept that terminology “One Size Shoe
DOES NOT FIT All” while AGBell did used that ideology of “Oral only
method” which is “One Size Shoe DOES FIT All”, not “One Size Shoe DOES
NOT FIT All” which is true.
Even today AGBell/AVT and its associates tell parents of deaf babies to
focus on one method “Oral only method” which is the same as “One Size
Shoe [“Oral only method”} DOES FIT All”.
Paotie
April 7, 2008 at 4:58 pm
Rachel ..
I’ve been accused of somehow being audist towards Mr. Egbert because of
my English use, so you’re not the first person he’s criticized before.
I do want to direct you to an article that dissected Mr. Egbert’s
bloody of a pulp book of fiction called, “Mindfield.” The author of the
article is a well-known Deaf blogger from DeafDC.com.
Quotes regarding Mr. Egbert’s book:
“By page six I wanted to throw the book in the trash.
Though usually I have a 100-page rule in which authors have a hundred
pages with which to capture my attention, the spelling and grammar
errors and typos alone were frustrating enough without the stilted and
artificial dialogue style and the unimaginative wording that felt
cribbed from a dozen other conspiracy theory novels and stitched
together here.”
“Unfortunately, instead of turning this into a human suspense novel at
this point (which is something the best thriller novels do), Egbert
veers toward the conspiracy theory thread, portraying Halley as a
helpless brainwashed victim of the corporate powermongers who lead AG
Bell.”
“For a book that’s supposed to spread understanding in the minds of
clueless hearing readers, that was a severe misstep. Now they have no
reason to understand why oralism-only isn’t always a great idea, and
they do have reason to think deaf people, even the ones intelligent
enough to write a book, are incapable of making a reasoned or
convincing argument.”
Click here.
I didn’t make this up!
Gawrsh! No wonder the DBC still sucks!
:o)
April 7, 2008 at 5:08 pm
Paotie,
I have many hearing students that read the book from University of
Minnesota and their testimonials have said that they now understood
about ASL and Deaf Culture.
Have you read the book?
April 7, 2008 at 5:11 pm
A bit of history tidbit here:
Did you know that there were a lot of deaf teachers back in 1880′s and
then when the Milan conference started with Edward Miner Gallaudet and
Alexander Graham Bell in Italy — they argued back and forth about ASL
and oralism. AG Bell subsquently won the battle and many of these deaf
teachers lost their jobs.
Now we are seeing history being repeated again here with AVT. How can
we deaf teachers work with these deaf children if ASL is forbidden?
You’ll be laying off a lot of these deaf teachers and
para-professionals which is not good. We’ll be out of jobs and then
what do we do? Deaf children need deaf role models. They need to see
that we are here, we are capable of doing things and that we are just
fine as they are. When I grew up, I NEVER saw a deaf adult until I
reached to middle school and I finally met deaf adults. How did that
make me feel? Relieved of course as I didn’t know what I would be when
I grew up.
You are the ones who are building the wall against us, not us.
April 7, 2008 at 5:12 pm
I know ASL, Oral, and CI are always deaf. Barb DiGi accused my hearing
parents and hearing parents ABUSED & NEGLECTED CI and oral children.
She is wrong and misunderstood. My parents raised me as good family.
Barb also said Oral are BRAINWASH, BRAINSICK, LOW-MINDED, blah blah…..
Look at me *I have good brain*
ABUSE = Violence means hurt children
You can LAUGH…I don’t want to buy your sick yellow T-Shirt with picture
Deaf Baby with Cuff. ummmm no comment.
April 7, 2008 at 5:13 pm
John ..
I have read excerpts of your book.
That was terribly too much.
John and others,
You and others know that many mean pick an approach and stick with it.
If I choose to have my son’s primary language be English, why would I
then make ASL his primary language….which is what you are promoting.
DBC, please excuse the slip earlier, IS saying that they believe ASL
hould be the PRIMARY language.
As Older and Wiser said, AVT wouldn’t be AVT if you add ASL. How would
an auditory only approach then turn around and add ASL? It wouldn’t be
an auditory approach anymore??
Again I must speak from my experience of 4 years at the same AVT
Center…..the therapists know within a limited amount of time if an
auditory only approach is working for the child. They evaluate the
child on day one. Evaluate at each session. Make detailed observations
and notes. Know if you’re doing your “homework”…..because the child is
evidence of the work you’re doing with him or her. Meet as a staff with
any questions or concerns. It’s constant communication, feedback,
evaluation, etc. They DO NOT keep a child in a program if it is not
working for the child. They, too, want the child to have language, and
if AVT isn’t the right fit, they are the first to admit it. These
therapists at our center are certified AVT. They have tons of training
and were either teachers of the deaf or SLP’s with Master’s degrees and
experience prior to certification. They do not have to hang on to
clients to make money, etc. Our center enrolls approximately 4 new
children per month. It may be more, but I’d have to check. If a parent
wants the program to work for his or her child, the guidelines should
be followed. It is that simple. Someone else said that above. It works.
Look at Rachel….do you think she’s anomaly? Couldn’t be I guess, look
at her sister.
Why can’t we all just agree to disagree. Call it a day. Do what we
believe is best for our children.
And,
Why you keep saying that DBC sucks?
What can you do to help about Deaf babies to learn a cognitive language
that have been off course since 1880 Milan?
You need to “Do It”……… “not motor mouth about it!
Paotie, I know you can be very good about Deaf issue but you seem to
enjoy more about bashing.
April 7, 2008 at 5:16 pm
And one more that I forgot to add:
Parents are advised to spend many countless hours with their deaf child
on AVT at home. They are willing to do this. But when it comes in
learning ASL, they don’t want to spend hours in learning ASL. What is
the difference?? Both require a lot of parental hours.
I just finished reading a book, “Hearing Father, Deaf Daughter”, this
father took his time to take classes to learn ASL so that he could
communicate with his daughter. It is a very heartwarming and moving
book. It proves that he was successful in communicating with his
daughter and that his daughter was doing well in school that she became
one of the top students.
April 7, 2008 at 5:22 pm
I ain’t gonna do nothin’ to help babies learn a cognitive language. If
it ain’t my kid, I ain’t gonna do nothin’ about it.
And you don’t need to tell me what to do, either, Mr. Egbert – I can
think for myself.
April 7, 2008 at 5:23 pm
I’ve been hearing that a lot of hearing people complain that deaf
people tend to live on SSI/welfare, well if we get laid off from our
teaching/paraprofessional jobs, whose fault is it??
Think about it…
Deaf teachers/paraprofessionals are here to stay. They want to work
with deaf children but if AVT advocates in forbidding ASL, then how can
we work with them when our hands are tied behind our backs.
AVT teachers are literally stealing our jobs and taking away our ASL
and working with deaf children because they know they can make a lot of
money in that field.
I don’t think you have thought about this.
April 7, 2008 at 5:27 pm
Answer to Older and Wiser -
My girls don’t speak with a southern accent. Rachel actually lived in
Boston until she was 4. Plus, my husband and I and about 55% of the
rest of the area where we live are from the northeast. As a result, all
three of my children, including my son who has normal hearing and was 5
months old when we moved here, speak with a neutral accent.
I had mentioned in a comment to a previous post that Jessica could not
attend the private school where she is if she couldn’t hear and speak
because, at least in our state, the special ed laws do not apply to
children whose parents voluntarily put them in a private school. The
only accommodation Jessica needs is a portable soundfield system, which
we had to purchase. If she needed an interpreter, she couldn’t go to
the school unless we were wealthy enough to provide one full-time,
which we’re not.
Rachel certainly could have been an editor without hearing, but I doubt
it would have happened so easily at her current school because everyone
there communicates through spoken language. At the very least, being
able to communicate orally with ease has facilitated her job.
Chris
April 7, 2008 at 5:28 pm
It is all about stigmatation that AGBell succeeded among people that
they should not spend any time with sign language, ASL.
They know that these people will believe them.
It is really sad.
April 7, 2008 at 5:33 pm
PAOTIE!…..WHAT!
“I ain’t gonna do nothin’ to help babies learn a cognitive language. If
it ain’t my kid, I ain’t gonna do nothin’ about it.”
WOW!
VERY SELF-CENTERED PERSON! YOU ARE, PAOTIE
April 7, 2008 at 5:42 pm
To Shelley in #189 -
Don’t you realize that CID specializes in deaf education? So, if Barb
and John and others don’t think that research coming out of CID is
legitimate, then why should I trust research out of Gallaudet or CID?
April 7, 2008 at 5:43 pm
To a deafie in #200 -
Yours is the most selfish argument I’ve heard. Those of us, both
parents and professionals, who believe in AVT should not follow AVT so
that we can save your job? What about the wellbeing of our kids? What
about the jobs of the AV therapists? Why is your job what is the most
important? Also, why is it that you think AV therapists are getting
rich off of AVT? As a former board member of an AV center, I can tell
you that nothing is further from the truth. They are paid as teachers
are. Furthermore, our AV center is a nonprofit and so there isn’t a lot
of money to go around.
April 7, 2008 at 5:46 pm
Oh boy.
Okay, I am calling it a day…
Enjoyed reading and making the comments. There is no easy answer, after
We the parents want the best for our deaf children so we are their best
advocates. The best advocacy skill is LOVE.
April 7, 2008 at 5:47 pm
I’m glad that Rachel has had success with her CI and her AVT therapy
along with her parents’ commitment has made it possible for her to
interact in spoken language with her hearing peers.
However, many of us d/Deaf have encountered at least one oral or AVT
“failure”, I hate that term– I prefer the term another commenter
brought up, the approach failed the child rather– but am using the term
that many readers are familiar with. No doubt deaf educators and
counselors see more failure examples because the deaf education system
is the “last resort” for oral/AVT failures today. These deaf
individuals fell thru the cracks and didn’t gain the language
acquisition early enough to be on par with their hearing peers in
education. These are the individuals we’ve been discussing on this
post, there’s no sugar-coating the fact that these people do exist.
No program is 100 percent failure-proof, there is bound to be a failure
rate whether it’s AVT, AV, oral, TC, and/or other methods. And there
are many factors involved in each “failure”– lack of parental
commitment, or a lack of therapy resources in a rural area, or the
child may be a visual learner versus an auditory learner, or the age at
which the child was implanted, or learning disabilities compounded with
deafness, the list goes on.
Many of us d/Deaf have acknowledged for a long time that there needs to
be a backup or as I call it, a plan B, should there be indications that
the deaf child is not picking up spoken language on schedule, or not on
par with his hearing peers. Sign language is very visual for a
youngster already using his eyes to make up for what he cannot
comprehend aurally.
ASL becomes “the shoe that finally fits” AFTER some or all the other
hoes have been tried, AFTER it’s too late for the child’s language
acquisition and then it’s catch-up forever after for the individual as
he grows up into an adult. Not a wonder that ASL gets stigmatized, it’s
the “last resort” language as well.
April 7, 2008 at 5:56 pm
Mr Dawson, aka, Paotie,
you say;
What do you care?…….How do you like to treat people or Deaf babies?…….
it ain’t my kid, I ain’t gonna do nothin’ about it.”…..
Look at yourself….
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=P0G6kuojoWI
The kind of person you are?
April 7, 2008 at 5:59 pm
During 1950′s, black people weren’t allowed to become a profession.
Yes, Deaf teachers/paraprofessionals are here to stay. ASL is here to
tay.
http://blogs.nad.org/president/?p=13
April 7, 2008 at 6:03 pm
Yes, Deaf teachers/paraprofessionals are here to stay and ASL is here
to stay.
April 7, 2008 at 6:05 pm
hello
April 7, 2008 at 6:33 pm
I agree with Chris..it is about the stigmatization that AGBell has
about ASL and why it is ok to use ASL as a last resort.
I see hundreds of deaf children who are so delayed cuz of the AVT
approach. If they had been exposed to ASL from the get go, whether it
was at home or at the educational setting, they wouldnt be struggling
with literacy skills.
April 7, 2008 at 6:43 pm
I waited to see if any one else would “call your hand” on comment #81
re: “natural voice quality”. If that is a measure of “success” with CI,
then Rachel fails!
I have asked several hearing friends to listen to the two recent videos
Rachel has posted in which she speaks, and all tell me that Rachel’s
peech and voice quality are adequate, but not “normal” or “natural”. I
asked about several deaf kids we know and the report is that some of
the deaf kids without CI speak better than Rachel and some of the deaf
kids with CI speak more poorly.
It seems almost universal that the hearing parents of deaf kids expect
the CI to make their kids speak in a way that cannot be distinguished
from their hearing peers. I have never observed this, yet the
expectation persists.
Having said that, speech quality, like lipreading skill, is *not*
linked directly with intelligence and not strictly linked to hearing
alone, otherwise hearing kids would never need speech therapy, but
clearly some do.
White Ghost
April 7, 2008 at 7:10 pm
Whoa! Over two hundred comments.
I congratulate you for being the most controversial blogger! You should
be getting the “Most Controversial Blogger 2008″ award from the
Deafread! I’d vote for ya. :-)
Way to go, gal!
Chris, nice try for being harassed to all of us whom you disagree. I
enjoy yours.
That’s maravilloso!
April 7, 2008 at 7:20 pm
To David in #211 – Since you can’t hear for yourself how Rachel sounds,
then you are not really qualified to pass judgment. Rachel’s speech is
very clear. There is not a hearing person who has any difficulty
understanding her. The only speech sound that she has that is not 100%
is her R. No hearing person who meets her is aware that she is deaf.
They occasionally ask her where she is from, but that is it. AVT
provided her with excellent speech, especially considering that she
heard nothing until she was 2 years 8 months old. Her voice quality is
far more than “adequate,” but I guess putting her down makes you feel
better. Why don’t you put your spoken voice on YouTube and let us hear
you?
Why don’t you ask your hearing friends to listen to Jessica, who was
implanted at age 15 months, at
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-Ae2VW6NMZE
or another AV child at
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aNFnpZAtK9c
who was implanted at age 9 months,
or most of the kids at
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NjT9zOijyLQ&feature=related
Only one of the kids on this video has a typical deaf voice, and even
at age 15, which accounts for the difference. If they tell you that
most of these kids don’t have a totally natural voice quality, then
they are lying to you.
Cindy
April 7, 2008 at 7:22 pm
People,
You are smart enough not be be stigmatize by AGBell/AVT and its
associates of their necessity because of their self-centered ideology,
but it really seems that “you” prefer to be stigmatized by the “seemly”
uperior type of these people rather than “genuine” type of people that
have been through that reality.
Please open your mind and see who is telling you the truth from their
heart. Not their necessity of money.
Which is more important, humanity or money?
For your child?
These people generated millions of dollars for themselves, not for your
child… but from YOU!.
And they say, THANK YOU!
Morality ideology is who we are, and….THEY…. (AGBell/AVT) are more on
the monetary side of ideology to help you.
Sorry to tell you the reality that you are actually in this kind of
life and you are in a very naive state of mind to be taken advantage
of.
We care about Deaf Babies and They (AGBell/AVT) care about your (their)
money.
Please think of your kids as much as we do with your hearts. We “were”
like them too… before it was too late…but we survived.
Realized later in life,
April 7, 2008 at 7:26 pm
Open-Minded Deaf Person, I’m sorry that you feel the way that you do,
but I beg to differ with some of what you have written.
I do not speak nor hear (100 dB loss in both ears, and I threw out my
hearing aids years ago). I can use interpreters if I want to, but in
all honesty, there have been many situations where, if there was no
interpreter, I would still get by. I was a teacher of hearing children
for two years, and I never spoke a word, nor did I have an interpreter
(except for required workshops, which the school was happy to provide
for me). The parents and students loved me and I had great evaluations!
Don’t let anybody tell you what you can and can’t do. If you have the
confidence and the self-esteem, you can do anything! And it doesn’t
always require an interpreter!
You may want to visit a Bi-Bi program to see what it is really all
about. You seem to have some misconceptions about it.
And in 204: “Don’t you realize that CID specializes in deaf education?
So, if Barb and John and others don’t think that research coming out of
CID is legitimate, then why should I trust research out of Gallaudet or
CID?” CID is a school. Gallaudet and NTID are universities. There’s a
big difference there.
Ann 207: This is exactly why we advocate ASL first! So that they will
have full access to a language first. It is very rare that ASL doesn’t
work for a child, and if the ASL is dropped in favor of a better method
(AVT or mainstreaming or whatever), then nothing is lost!
April 7, 2008 at 7:29 pm
Check out http://www.cid.edu/home/CIDatWUSM%20scientists.htm
CID’s research department is affiliated with Washington University in
St. Louis, a highly renown university, and their top researchers are
all PhDs. To quote the website, “All CID at Washington University
School of Medicine scientists listed have faculty appointments. ” They
are at least as qualified as NTID and Gallaudet to conduct deafness
research.
April 7, 2008 at 7:36 pm
Melissa and David, My hearing husband said the same thing about
Rachel’s voice. Sometimes it’s hard to remove bias when it’s your own
child. This is not meant to be an attack or criticism of Rachel or her
voice, but David is not alone in this belief. Nobody’s going to put
their voice on youtube because we have nothing to prove. Rachel’s video
just weakens your (Melissa’s) statement about “natural voice quality”
April 7, 2008 at 7:38 pm
And, here is a profile of Ann Geers, whose research I cited. She is now
in Dallas but used to be at CID:
Dr. Ann Geers
Dr. Geers received her Ph.D. in Pyschology from Washington University
in 1977. She has a long and distinguished career with the Central
Institute for the Deaf in St. Louis serving as a research scientist and
Director of Clinical Services. She is an adjunct Professor in the
department of Otolaryngology/Head and Neck Surgery at The University of
Texas Southwestern Medical Center. Her research interests include the
developmental evaluation of deaf children after cochlear implantation.
Sounds like legitimate qualifications for doing research to me. If your
only criteria for classifying her research as not legitimate or
believable is that you don’t agree with her, then that’s hardly
adequate. You’d better find someone with credentials equal to hers who
has studied the same populations.
Li-Li's Mom
April 7, 2008 at 7:39 pm
Hi Melissa!
You asked about how those of us who use the bi-bi approach employ our
teaching/learning methodologies at home, and referred to storytime. I
think someone else explained that bi-bi approach refers to the learning
environment at school, not a methodology. But in terms of how we fit
ASL and spoken English into my family’s life, it goes roughly like
this:
In the car, when swimming, at the beach, at bathtime, in the mornings,
at breakfast and while in bed, in crowds, across rooms, we sign
together. Over dinner, at storytime (before in-bed storytime), when we
dance and sing, when playing games, doing crafts and other activities
using our hands, we speak English.
In our family sign classes we support signing with spoken English
(especially when my husband and I cheat, but our teacher is an
excellent lipreader and pretty much always catches us), and in aural
rehabilitation classes (at least 4 sessions a week my husband and I
attend – we alternate or we’d lose our jobs – with our SLPs plus our
own less formal speech sessions at home), we support many of the
exercises and activities common in AVT with sign (all of our SLPs are
fluent at ASL and easily shift form one to the other).
On weekends, we mix it up.
It works out that at home we’re doing a lot more speaking than sign,
imply because my husband and I are at the toddler level in learning
ASL and we often have more complex issues than the average toddler to
deal with :) , so although Li-Li gets some quality direct learning in
ASL, she also gets all that passive learning in spoken English. To
balance this inequality and give her ASL language (not just vocabulary)
, she attends school / childcare 4 days a week at a school for the deaf
where she receives both ASL immersion programs and a spoken English/ASL
environment with a mix of deaf and hearing teachers and students.
But I’d never say I was an advocate for this approach — this is
entirely customized to us and to our particular environment and
abilities. I’m thrilled with any approach that works for a family, CI
or not, and I think you’ve proven that AVT was the perfect choice for
your children and your home!
April 7, 2008 at 7:45 pm
Melissa, I read the website (CID), and I certainly am not impressed.
Here’s what I see… head and neck surgery, otolaryngology, audiology,
tem cell therapies, cellular mechanisms, aural rehabilitation, speech,
anatomy, hearing loss, tissue destruction, cochlear implants, clinical
epidemiology, hearing aids… and many others. Many of those focus on the
physical, medical aspect of hearing loss, or speech and hearing.
Where’s the education part? I see ONE person that specializes in
language acquisition. Gallaudet University focuses on the WHOLE deaf
person, including sociology, linguistics, education, mental health, and
many others. So I guess if you want your child to be able to speak and
hear, go with CID’s research. If you want your child to be happy and a
whole person, go with Gallaudet’s research.
Li-Li’s Mom,
I appreciate your explanation. As I’ve said before, committed and
involved parents are the key.
One question – Do you know yet what you plan to do for kindergarten and
up, keep her at the school for the deaf or send her to a mainstream
kindergarten?
April 7, 2008 at 7:52 pm
If you do a google search for Johanna Nicholas and Nancy Tye Murray,
you will find a wealth of years of research related to language and
hearing. The same goes for Ann Geers. In addition, Johanna Nicholas is
now doing a follow-up study to the Geers one that I cited. The
conclusion of the original study states
They have brought back the same group of kids whom they studied years
ago when they were in elementary school and are re-evaluating them.
These kids are all now high school to college age. I’d be willing to
bet a lot of money on the outcome of this latest study.
April 7, 2008 at 8:07 pm
I have thought about your statement, and I think it is the most
ridiculous statement I’ve read thus far ….other than the Russian
Roulette one.
April 7, 2008 at 8:11 pm
Melissa, we’re really agonizing over that one, but we’ve got a few
years to go.
We want to stay with TLC, the teachers are amazing and caring (and a
few ivy leaguers and Gally hotshots – great deaf role models for the
wee one’s self-esteem as well as being wonderful teachers, staff, and
interpreters!). We’re definitely staying throughout PreK. But if we had
to make the decision about kindergarten and up today, we’d likely have
to find someplace else with an established program for CI kids: the
handful of CI kids in the current gen. of kindergarteners-to-be are
leaving for local CI-specific programs even though they have to give up
the signing environment to do so (it’s heartbreaking — everyone loves
it there, there just haven’t been enough CI kids until now).
I don’t think that we’d do a mainstream environment for elementary
chool: where we live, our public school isn’t the right place for her
ituation, although we’re still researching options, neighborhoods, and
even considering heading back down to Virginia where my husband taught
at a private school that would provide a perfect environment.
But fortunately we’ve got a large group of CI kids in the early
childhood program right now, TLC seems committed to trying to expand
its curriculum to make it work, and they have some really great SLPs
involved in the early education program. So given that they’ve got a
couple of years to build up the latest in educational approaches and
resources (and we’re fundraising like mad), we’re remaining uncommitted
and open-minded for the time being.
April 7, 2008 at 9:18 pm
Li-Li’s mom,
I did my internship at TLC. I gotta tell you, that is one of the best
deaf education programs I have ever seen in my 10 years in the field. I
have worked in oral-only, TC, and BiBi programs and nothing I have seen
beats TLC hands down!
Maybe to you, that’s a silly comment but if u see the several children
who were unable to pick up on spoken language and because delayed
linguistically, u probably would feel the same as I do. Maybe not. Who
knows? We will never know until you and the others learn ASL and
immerse yourself in the Deaf community and have both experiences to
draw upon. I have had both to compare and I can say that the BiBi
approach is the most effective method to ensure that NO child falls
through the cracks linguistically.
April 7, 2008 at 9:26 pm
Melissa re:#213 :)
I only asked my hearing friends about Rachel’s speech after you made an
issue of her speech in several postings. I do not really care how she
ounds – I do not care much how *I* sound.
However, I have observed many sets of Hearing parents who seem to
expect that a CI will give their child speech that sounds
indistinguishable from their Hearing peers *and* that their child will
not even need the assistive technology that you say Rachel and
Elizabeth use. I have to wonder – do all these sets of parents ignore
the same parts of the informed consent information, or is there
omething amiss with the standard information given these parents at a
very vulnerable time in their lives?
I know how informed consent is supposed to work, and I know that in
many other settings informed consent is done very poorly and hastily,
as just another thing to check off to keep the pencil-pushers happy. I
really have to wonder about the information given to the parents of
April 7, 2008 at 9:30 pm
I would have to say that I cannot say that CID would provide unbiased
research. I know that because CID was where I had my oral upbringing.
ASL has never ever been allowed there and there were times of the “old
chool” where the students were actually physically punished for using
ign language, altho most of that happened before my days at CID.
You’re absolutely right that they have that affiliation with Washington
University as that is where CID’s teachers in training are educated at
the graduate level. They have absolutely nothing to do with ASL
whatsoever so how can that be unbiased research, regardless of how
prestigious Washington University is.
Now Gallaudet, as I understand it, has a CI facility on campus so they
may be more unbiased than CID, as they cater to all forms of
communication modes. Comparing Gallaudet with Washington University
would be like comparing apples and oranges. Washington University is
much more on the medical side so they may not have the expertise on the
education side, they only know oral education and thats it.
I am not going to sit here and say CID is a bad place, because I did
ignificantly benefit from them. However and unfortunately, there are
many others that did not. The blame does not lie within the school
alone, but also the parents that were not involved extensively with
their child’s oral upbringing. The successes that I am aware of, all
had extensive parental involvement whereas those that were not as
uccessful did not.
What I am indeed happier to see, is the fact that smaller programs are
being set up across the country, such as satellite schools implemented
by CID for example, because that allows for more parental involvement,
as opposed to placing the students in dormitories.
As I mentioned earlier in a previous blog, I stopped using a hearing
aid at a very young age and I am profoundly deaf in both ears. I know I
learned to speak and read lips, primarily because of the extensive
involvement of my parents, just like you were with your daughters. I
would imagine that a significant portion of those that were not as
uccessful is because that they did not have the parental involvement
that we had.
Now CID has a reunion every five years and beleive it or not, I would
ay that less than 5% that attend these reunions do not know any sign
language. The wide majority of the attendees there are signers and many
of the can indeed be able to communicate with hearing people one way or
another. I can tell you that the majority of these attendees wish they
had known about the deaf culture at a younger age, regardless of
whether or not they can freely communicate in the hearing culture. I
count myself among these people.
You say that Rachel is among the first people to use a CI in an AVT
program and with her being in college, that also states that it is a
good time, as its now been around long enough, to have some unbiased
research conducted where we can really know the unbiased percentages of
uccesses and non-successes, of not only AVT, but also ASL, bi-bi, cued
peech, etc. (trying to avoid using the word failure here)
April 7, 2008 at 9:41 pm
I really am not going to come back to you with a disparaging comment
like your Russian Roulette one. You need to remember that there are
parents here who dearly love their children. Dearly. Unconditionally.
We would do anything for our children. We have provided them with what
we feel is best for them taking into consideration their individual
needs. You can talk about your views, but please leave the derogatory
comments at home. AVT works for many of our children. They are not
deprived. They are not linguistically delayed upon graduation from the
programs. They are functioning well with their implants in their
worlds. Maybe you should work on your bi-bi program. Develop it,
implement it, evaluate it, promote it, and reach out to those who need
you. My son has been in a program for 4 years, and he’s heading off to
mainstream Kindergarten in the fall. I’m not going to change his life
based on anything you are saying here other than to shelter him from
comments that belittle him and who he is. Trust me when I say, if AVT
did not work for him (he began at 18 months upon diagnosis and is now
5) we would have sought other approaches for him. We would have been
guided into such programs by our amazing AVT. He is amazing. He is
child. He’s all boy. He’s smart. He tells the funniest stories. He
loves life. He loves to listen. He loves to talk to others. He has
integrated hearing into his life beautifully. His therapist asked him
the other day. What would you do if you went outside and found money on
the sidewalk? He said, “I would pick up the dollar, fold it up into a
Star Wars ship, and then I’d give it to someone as a present.” He has
given us the present of just being him. We have given him the present
of language. Please remember we are speaking of children here. Not
commodities. Not nameless pictures. I can only speak from experience,
and what I see is not what you see.
Thanks for sharing. While some suggest visiting a bi-bi approach, I’ll
be honest there are none in these here parts. TC yes. Oral yes. AV yes.
I appreciate your comments.
Question: With your approach that you’ve designed, is ASL Li-Li’s
primary language? Is English her secondary language? Do you speak when
you sign or do you keep them separate? Does she have age appropriate
language skills in each language? Just wondering..just being open
minded:)
April 7, 2008 at 10:08 pm
Older and Wiser,
My son does have a southern accent detected in his speech which I find
facinating. Obviously he hears the accent. He uses our southern
colloquialisms like
“YesMaam” “yessir” “ya’ll” “wanna” “gunna” etc. perfectly :)…not the
dreaded “ain’t” though. There were a few AV children I met this year
who when they spoke were so southern it was like syrup flowing from
their mouths. It was great.
April 7, 2008 at 10:21 pm
Melissa, I won’t deny that the people you cited are prominent and
well-educated researchers in their fields. I’m not sure if you
understood my point earlier. When I googled the names (in quotes), the
only information I could find was on cochlear implant studies, the ear,
hearing, otolaryngology, audiologic rehabilitation, and other stuff
about hearing and speech. Ann Geers has her Ph.D in Psychology, but all
the research she does involves hearing and/or speech as well. I found
two related to linguistics (of course, English skills, and that is a
whole other argument). I found two others that related to other topics.
Speech, hearing, speech, hearing, speech, hearing, blah, blah, blah. We
all know speech and hearing does not correlate to one’s IQ, level of
happiness, or level of success (by success, I mean living
independently, happily, and pursuing their goals, NOT speech and
hearing ability).
By the way, much of their research (from CID) that cites sign language
fails to cite ASL. Are they really evaluating children who grew up
using ASL, or are they evaluating those who grew up with cued speech,
MCE, SEE, or, as I like to call it, “hearing people who THINK they’re
igning, but all they’re doing is making a fool of themselves” (we all
know the type, don’t we, Deafies???).
April 7, 2008 at 10:26 pm
mom2boys, you are very much like my own parents, who loved me
unconditionally, did everything they could for me, and made what they
thought were the best decisions for me.
It is sad that after 28 years, they still think they know what’s best
for me, despite me explaining otherwise.
April 7, 2008 at 11:36 pm
Hi mom2boys, ahhh, my husband would LOVE to hear a little southern
flavor in Li-Li’s voice. But even after being activated for only a few
months, she’s already got that Boston accent evident in her first words
(more and star sound a whole lot like maw and stah — we’ve got to add a
few syllables in there and crank up our Rs!).
Li-Li’s primary language is ASL. She tends to interpret, though: For
instance, when her SLP asks her “which is the bear?”, “where’s the
dog?”, “who eats a carrot?”, etc., she generally signs the answer
first, and then points to the appropriate picture or toy. Conversely,
when her ASL teacher points to a picture of a snake, a sleeping baby,
or a mouse, Li-Li often launches into the associated Ling check
responses, verbally, and then provides the sign a moment later.
We’ve got her post-CI eval. at Children’s Hospital, Boston tomorrow, so
we’ll soon see if she’s on track for a 2YO (EI evals show a tremendous
leap in the past 6 months, even though she came here from a Chinese
orphanage in February ’07 after a year of being isolated from any
verbal or manual communication. They weren’t aware she was deaf: her
behavioral reports said she was “stubborn” and doesn’t listen to
caretakers (which is true, though, she is, and she doesn’t :) !).
April 7, 2008 at 11:43 pm
Shel, so good to hear wonderful things about TLC from professionals
like you — we parents who are there adore the place. My husband and I
thank our lucky stars that they opened a staff-only child care program
to us (with deaf, HOH, CODAs and hearing kids all mixed together) in
addition to the usual early childhood services and programs they offer.
Our TLC SLP voluntarily comes with us to all of Li-Li’s mappings and
evals and corresponds regularly with our CI team to make certain that
the school is synching up her therapy appropriately. Just need to add
in a great CI-focused approach to the kindergarten and upper level
curriculum and maintain the great cohort of 5-6 CI kids currently in
the early childhood program, and we’ll be very happy!
Mishkazena
April 10, 2008 at 2:26 pm
There are so many things here I want to comment, but won’t with one
exception.
For the people who nitpicked the quality of Rachel’s speech, please
note that she got her c.i. at the age of 2 years and 8 months, which is
considered late nowadays. The age of implantation does make a
ignificant difference. Please listen to the speech of her younger
ister Jessica who got implanted at the age of 15 months.
In the successful cases of aural/oral competency with kids implanted
less than two years old, even more with one year old or younger,
usually their speech cannot be distinguished by their hearing peers.
With the not functional cases, it is a different ball-game.
AVmother
April 14, 2008 at 8:51 am
FYI,
Dr. A. G. Bell used a self-created fingerspelling with his mother. He
also signed with various people, including (of course) Helen Keller.
Dr. Bell was NOT at the conference at Milan. Yes, he was a proponent of
teaching speech to the deaf so that they could be in the mainstream.
But he was not a representative at the conference.
Dr. Bell was involved in a large body of teachers of the deaf, years
ago. He fought tooth and nail to continue to allow ALL methodologies to
be present in the organization. He refused to “wine and dine”
legislators as was suggested in order to win approval of his methods.
He believed that his ideas should stand on their own merit. He believed
this very strongly. He also believed in day schools and mainstreaming.
He was not a proponent of boarding schools since this removed kids from
their families and communities. His wife and mother (both also deaf)
had shown him the benefit of this concept.
Dr. Bell created an organization which now is there to support parents
who make the choice to utilize either oral or AV methods. However, any
parent of a deaf infant in this country is presented all options in by
the people involved in the birth to three programs in each state in the
nation. AND, I might say, they are often biased toward sign language
programs. Thankfully there IS a private organization which will provide
upport upon request.
As to the idea that speech is not able to be learned until about 18
months: hogwash. Babies begin listening before birth, and deaf infants
can learn to listen very shortly after birth. They can babble as
infants and, if implanted early, can develop the normal phonemes AT THE
SAME TIME as their hearing peers (and I’ve had a toddler with hundreds
of expressive words between 18 and 24 months, so I have firsthand
experience). When audition is emphasized early on, they can have their
5 senses sharing the brain as any child’s would, rather than having
visual functions become stronger as time passes, failing to relinquish
these areas to the auditory sense. Deaf babies are not born with
tronger visual senses– this is a myth. Development of the visual
enses for language use, will preclude typical development of auditory
language, and consequently, speech production.
Thanks, open-minded deaf person, for being happy for kids today who can
benefit from a CI. What a breath of fresh air to read about someone who
is forward thinking and can be pleased for the future generations,
despite their own history. Kids today can easily converse with their
peers, and it’s sad when others aren’t thrilled with that prospect.
It’s not easy to acknowledge that the path today is different than it
was 25 years ago, and it takes a lot of wisdom to separate one’s own
experiences from the facts.
An Activist
February 14, 2011 at 12:09 am
Rachel Melissa and all the other AVTers,
Has it occured to you that AVT causes a dhh kid to be DEPENDENT on
their hearing aid/CI?
Yes, they can hear and speak (and with fluency all along the spectrum)
BUT, they are HELPLESS without the technology. They cannot function
without the technology…which is EXPENSIVE. I know of a teen boy whose
bilateral CIs both broke. He is literally LOST without his CIs. He
can’t even speechread! Whereas a kid who attends a bilingal bicultural
program, aquires fluency in BOTH spoken English and ASL!!!!
I know hoh kids who are fluent in ASL and speech and can code switch
easily.
Also one thing that I have NEVER seen addressed. AVT is essentially
aying that you want your kid to have to endure an eternal speech
thereapy session. Why the heck would you want your kid to be in an
eternal speech therapy session?
How would you like it if kids made fun of your voice or if people
wouldn’t hire you b/c they thought you were retarded b/c of your deaf
voice? How would you like it if you were only comfortable talking one
on one? You guys neglect stuff like a dhh kid’s mastery of written
language, and social emotional issues (you have NO idea how many times
I’ve been IMd by dhh oral boys wanting a girlfriend!) or just life
acheivement in general.
JessicaB
November 17, 2011 at 2:37 pm
Activist’s comment is an offended! I disagree about CI/hearing aids are
dependent. The deaf people don’t have CI or not wear hearing aids are
dependent, they are very depend on ASL interpreters. The CI users
doesn’t need to have an ASL interpreter because they can hear, speaking
kill with device. It mean they are independence without need ASL
interpreter.
Open minded’s view like mine but I never attend to Gallaudet
University. I had experience in both deaf/hearing world. I’m support
the parents choice for deaf babies to have CI not DBC’s own of all deaf
babies/children.
I’m giggling at Shel’s comment about her raised oral without ASL, gave
it up on oral skill, Remember she don’t have a CI user like Rachel. I
believe that CI user between non ci user are different experience. I
admire Rachel’s success with CI and AVT. I enjoying read her blog. I
joined to CI online on Facebook page fan to support CI.
I love my CI! I can’t live without it!
Where do I start
Stories
Choose Cochlear Implant
Tags
Acceptance Accommodations Advanced Bionics Advocacy AGBell ASL Audiology AVT
Awareness Babies BHSM Children CI User Story Cochlear Implant Cochlear
Implant Convention Cochlear™ College Deaf Community EaR Books Encouragement
Events Facts Giveaway Contest Hearing Aids Language Life MED-EL Medical Care
Misconceptions Music New Parents News Opinion Oral Education Parenting
Professional Development Research Seminar Social Speak Up Spoken Language
Teens Tips and Tricks Video Well-Known People
Archives
[Select Month________]
Menu
Home
About
Contact
FAQ
Cochlear Implant
Life
Listening and Spoken Language
Shop
Services
Follow Us:
Facebook Twitter YouTube Flickr pinterest RSS
Cochlear Implant Online is not endorsed by Cochlear™, MED-EL, Advanced
Bionics, and AGBell. Articles and comments do not necessarily represent
the views of all three companies and AGBell. This website is created by
Rachel Chaikof, who is a Cochlear™ Nucleus® bilateral cochlear implant
recipient, to create awareness about cochlear implants and listening
and spoken language.
Designed by Rachel Chaikof ©2001 - 2014 Rachel Chaikof. All Rights
Reserved.
Cochlear™ is a registered trademark of Cochlear™ Ltd.
Nucleus® is a registered trademark of Cochlear™ Ltd.
HiFocus™ is a registered trademark of Advanced Bionics AG.
Neptune™ is a registered trademark of Advanced Bionics AG.
