Feed I look so I can hear.... » Cochlear implants Comments Feed
alternate alternate I look so I can hear.... WordPress.com

I look so I can hear….
Living with a hearing loss in London, UK
__________________________________________________________________
Cochlear implants
NEWSFLASH: A new site is available at www.cochlearimplantHELP.com with
everything you ever wanted to know about cochlear implants!
MY HEARING JOURNEY – My personal learning curve, jumping from hearing
aids to cochlear implants
I discovered during my cochlear implant journey that the medic team
don’t give you a lot of information, just some general ballpark
end-user results and info on the implantation process. Once I started
digging, I discovered a whole lot of stuff which enabled me to make an
INFORMED decision. As I’m the one wearing the thing for the rest of my
life, I want it to be as effective as possible. Hopefully, the
information here will help those considering a cochlear implant to make
an informed decision too.
It’s important to remember that a cochlear implant will not give you
normal hearing. However, it will give you better hearing than with
hearing aids, and it can take up to 2 years for the rehabilitation
process. Some will do well within a few months; others, particularly
those born deaf, can take much longer. Many cochlear implant users
report ongoing improvements for years after activation.
There is some debate around the criteria and testing used to determine
whether you are a cochlear candidate or not. Myles de Bastion published
his views on this subject, which I am in agreement with – ‘NICE
Guidelines: Introducing a Flawed and Discriminatory Practice’.
All brands will work well for you. They are slightly different and one
brand might suit your needs and wants better than another.
CHOOSING A BRAND – what you need to know
Having a cochlear implant implanted isn’t Plug ‘n Play. It’s like a
computer – Garbage In, Garbage Out. You will need to work with the
cochlear implant to help it along, and retrain your brain to recognise
the new sounds. So, as well as keeping your expectations low, you need
to do some rehabilitation work to get the most out of your implant.
REHABILITATION – resources to help you get the most out of your
cochlear implant
WHAT IT SOUNDS LIKE THROUGH A COCHLEAR IMPLANT
Be aware that if you listen to these links through your hearing aids,
you will be listening to sounds processed twice, once through your
hearing aid, and again through a cochlear implant simulation. So OF
COURSE it’s going to sound screwy. I’d suggest asking a hearing friend
to have a listen and give you their thoughts. Don’t forget that your
brain will adapt and learn to process the sound signal over time, so it
will improve.
Listening demonstrations – a good representation of channel simulations
and electrode depths
Health Affairs
UT Dallas
UT Dallas – children
TINNITUS
Sometimes this goes away with a cochlear implant, sometimes it doesn’t.
Roll the dice and see …
COCHLEAR IMPLANT OPERATION
This is a very informative video as the surgeon comments on the surgery
and cochlear implants throughout. Well worth a watch in my opinion as
it you get the explanation along with it. (After the jump, click on
High Bandwidth under the video screen, it seems to play better. Click
on CC for captions or check the transcript button. Not for the
queamish!
Video of a cochlear implant operation
Tips on managing the hospital stay and operation.
Should you have a meningitis vaccine? Read about Kathleen.
COST OF COCHLEAR IMPLANTS
SOECIC 2010 charges document – Southampton UK
Healthcare Blue Book – USA
Global Cochlear Implant – obtain cheaper implants abroad
THE FUTURE FOR COCHLEAR IMPLANTS
Cochlear implants : Where we are and where we’re going – a Powerpoint
lideshow by Amber M. Gardner, Ph.D., CCC-A University of Virginia
Health System, which offers a fascinating look at the progress of
cochlear implants with photos that will make your hair stand on end!
There were some very brave pioneers and we are eternally grateful to
them.
Cochlear implant hybrids (2006)
Totally implantable cochlear implants for middle ear deafness. A paper
was presented, The development of a tympanic membrane sensor for a
totally implantable cochlear implant or hearing aid, (1997) but as yet,
nothing has been developed from this. However, see this article by
Rahul Sharpeshkar, Analog VLSI and Biological Systems lab,
Massachusetts Institute of Technology (2006). You can read an
explanation of their system at Mimicking the ear.
Considerations for design of future cochlear implant electrode arrays
(2008)
The Neurelec Digisonic SP binaural cochlear implant moves away from
bilateral implantation and allows the wearer to hear in stereo with one
processor and two microphones. UK news item (2010).
NICE guidance TA166: Cochlear implants for severe to profound deafness
in children and adults (Updated 2011)
USEFUL LINKS
Hearing Journey – the largest Cochlear Implant forum : the best place
to meet cochlear implant users and ask for friendly advice. All brands
are welcome however more technical advice can only be given for
Advanced Bionics.
Bionic Ear Association – Join the cochlear implant community, connect
to a mentor, use online rehabilitation tools
MedEl – User community
Cochlear – Nucleus CI community & Advocacy Programme
British CI Group – Find your local cochlear implant centre in the UK
National CI Users Association – Find your local cochlear implant
upport group and information on cochlear implants
UK Cochlear Implant Users Group on Yahoo
Case studies – read about cochlear implant user experiences
CI Theory – Optimize cochlear implant performance, downloads
NHS – Annual Evidence Update on Hearing Disorders
NICE – Cochlear implant guidance
Deafness Research UK – Cochlear Implant Research
Interview with Professor Graeme Clark
Comparison of bimodal and bilateral cochlear implant users on speech
recognition
FAQ – Air travel with a cochlear implant
Love playing sports, or working in construction? Here’s my article on
helmets for cochlear implant users, which is continually updated with
new resources.
Photographs of inner ear anatomy and cochlear implantation (Source: UT
Southwestern)
If you’re technically-minded and want a deeper look at cochlear
implants, check out this book: Programming Cochlear Implants
MAUDE (Manufacturer and User Facility Device Experience) – FDA database
of reported cochlear implant problems. Open the Product Class drop-down
list, and choose ‘Implant, Cochlear.’ Choose the results per page at
the bottom and date range. You will be able to see how many problems
occurred with each manufacturer and what they were.
Share this:
74 responses
3 01 2010
Howard Samuels (17:34:16) :
Hi Tina,
Holy smokes, you have done a lot of research on implants! I’m an
engineer, and didn’t have nearly the amount of information you
have available to you when I received my first implant.
You will find a lot of personal stories on Hearing Journey, and
ome technical posts, but probably nothing that you haven’t
already figured out for yourself.
Regards,
Howard
Reply
9 01 2010
Nicky (00:45:03) :
hi,
i had a CI meeting and i was interested in having the implant
but did not like the idea of having an big hearing over my ear
with a wire loop attach to a round plastic to stick to the back
of my head! :(
I was hoping something more invincible.
Regards
Nicky
23 08 2014
Bryan (19:06:25) :
they do have an invisible Cochlear Implant that implants inside
your head Nicky with batteries and no outside parts, But its
uper expensive!! like $30,000 dollars! :-O its called the
“Esteem Hearing Implant” & you have to have the batteries
changed surgically every 10 years.
24 08 2014
Bryan (14:52:21) :
actually regular cochlear implants cost more between 50,000 and
up so yeah.. I just had to do a little research so not bad for
the invisible Esteem Hearing implant by Envoy. I contacted them
and they send me a nice free info package by mail with a DVD
included with captions. I’m 20 years old so I was looking for
omething a little less noticeable too. If you where born deaf
for medical reasons, I don’t know if it will work as good
though. I’m surprised the site didn’t add it to their list
above. Sorry if sound gimmicky, Not advertising nothin. Just
thought I’d share the info if it helps someone.
Bluesky (19:58:35) :
This is the reason why most men with short receding hair don’t
go for a CI. On the otherhand, women can cover theirs up and you
bet we have more women cyborgs lol.
24 01 2011
Derek Trayler (21:14:25) :
I have short receded hair and I would rather put up wih it than
hear no sound. I do wear a hat sometimes.
14 09 2011
Angela (04:49:34) :
I have keep shaving my side of head and I can’t cover it up
because falls off I hope come up better idea women wouldnt have
keep shaving that spot crazy to me but I love my CI
2 10 2012
Jennifer Bergman (18:03:40) :
Need someone to show you how to put the wire on
the right way
30 01 2014
amantha (12:51:02) :
can you wear cochlear implant with wet hair
Tina (17:34:37) :
Yes you can. Some cochlear processors are shower proof or
waterproof too.
25 01 2010
Dan Schwartz (00:07:36) :
Hi Tina, Nicky, Howard and Bluesky!
@Tina: It was nice having both you and Katie-louise check in for
the Hearing Journey roundtable chat Thursday night!
There’s one minor correction/update: The deal for Phonak (OK,
Phonak’s nominal holding compay Sonovus) was completed the first
week of January, when the $489 million in cash actually
exchanged hands.
@Howard: Tina has done one hell of a job in her own research,
getting useful information from Jo, the audiologist in Wales, as
well as accumulating other counsel from her surgeon and CI
audiologist.
@Nicky: Nobody said deafness would be easy: I ran into this when
I was a hearing aid dispenser, with patients who wanted the
ubminiature CIC (Completely-In-Canal) hearing aids, despite
them not working very well. Other patients had no problem with a
body-worn processor pack and wire going to a BTE earpiece w/mic
& receiver if it meant they could hear better (the original
Nicolet digital hearing aid, and the original AVR-Sonovation
Trans-Ear were two in the 1988-1993 time frame). Most all CI
users fall somewhere in between the two extremes, with the trend
of older people concealing their processor & headband, and
younger people — Especially kids — flainting theirs, with bright
colors, decorations & jewelry, and their hair pulled back to
how off their hardware. It’s the kids leading the way with
their attitude towards their bionic ears of “Hey, it’s not a
flaw: It’s a feature!.” Katie-louise “Bionic Bailey” has been
blazing the trail over in England proudly strutting her stuff,
with many other teenagers in England and America following her
lead.
http://TinyURL.com/KLsports
[Disclaimer: Even though I’m in my 40’s, my own hearing aids are
bright red & have Tube-riders on them; and when I get my CI it’s
going to be air-brushed fluorescent orange-red!]
Getting back to the subject of the difficulty of deafness
itself: Only you can decide how much of a hinderance your own
hearing loss actually is: Some people aren’t really bothered by
it; while for others (yours truly included) it’s a devastating
career-ender. You have to balance how well you want to hear with
how much you want to display: AB’s processor is admittedly large
and bulky, but has the best performance; while MedEl’s Opus2 is
the smallest, and you sacrifice some performance (though many
find the remote control handy). Cochlear’s new Nucleus 5 is the
ame size as the Freedom 4 it replaced & is slightly larger than
the Opus 2.
@Bluesky: I don’t have the statistics for the UK; but over here
in America women consume almost twice the healthcare resources
as men — That is why they are more expensive to insure. [This is
an ongoing part of the healthcare policy debate here: Should men
have to pay more than the actuarial cost of their insurance to
ubsidize women to be “fair?”]
26 01 2010
Lissa (12:16:57) :
Wow, Tina! You’ve certainly done a lot of research!! I will be
bookmarking this page for future use also many useful pages from
this blog! You go, girl!! Keep informing us of many useful
things.
29 01 2010
Becky (16:14:53) :
Tina, you did a fantastic job in your research! I have
bookmarked this page to share with others who inquire on CI. It
is jampacked with information!
31 01 2010
Gina (03:27:27) :
Wow. I’m glad I came across this post. This post will be
valuable when time comes for me to decide which to pick. I was
leaning more to Cochlear, but now, realized that I need to give
each company a fair look and go from there. Definitely
bookmarking this one. Thanks for your time in compiling all
these information, which I’m sure was time consuming.
7 02 2010
Dr.V.Ramcharan (03:32:11) :
Tina,
I congratulate and thank you for such a wonderful work. This
website is testament to your determination to excel with your
CI. Ultimately, it is a gift to those with hearing-loss and
their families.
I encourage you to continue growing and updating the
information. There are few, if any, places where shuc valuable
information is available in such a candid and succinct manner.
I echo Howard’s comments : Even as a Surgeon, I did not have
quite this breadth of information at my fingertipse when I was
first implanted. You are quite a remarkable researcher !
Dr.V. (See you on HJ)
14 02 2010
Matt Covington (05:06:03) :
Tina this is a job well done.
10 03 2010
Michelle G (18:07:35) :
Tina –
Thank you so much for this information. My son will be getting a
CI in his right ear and I am so scared that I will make the
wrong brand choice. I want him to get the best, but its hard
just listening to the manufactures. Of course they all say they
are the “worlds best”. My son is 2 years old and is deaf in his
right ear and has only limited hearing in his left.
I listed to the CI demos and it’s frightening. Not that he will
hear differently (I think it’s a miracle), but rather the type
of CI really does matter! I am having a hard time figuring out
what is truly the best for clarity. 12 channels sound the best
to me, but I am sure there is more to it then just that. I also
can’t seem to find a recent document that describes the top
rated CIs (Nucleus 5, Harmony and MAESTRO)
Thank you again for bringing all this information to one spot.
It has been very helpful.
12 07 2010
Dan Schwartz (03:08:37) :
Michelle, I’m not sure if your son has received his implant yet;
but the warranties on the implanted electronics (at least here
in the US) is 3 years for Cochlear, five years for MedEl, and 10
years for AB.
Cheers!
Dan
TheHearingBlogDotCom
17 01 2011
Anonymous (03:18:48) :
Dan,
Cochlear’s warranty for internal device is actually 10 years,
not 3 years. Here is the source:
http://www.cochlear.com/au/warranty
31 03 2012
SteveHammond (19:34:06) :
The internal implant is 10 years warranty with all 3 companies.
How you get your numbers Dan ?
15 01 2011
Leah (08:29:54) :
Hi Michelle,
Yes, all Manufacturers will say “we’re the best”. But you’re
doing the right thing right now– you’re doing your research. I
encourage you to personally meet cochlear implant users and ask
them about what they like about their brand.
I am a Cochlear user and I’ve been with them since I was 9 years
old, so that’s 18 years now. I got my second implant 2 years
ago. They are the oldest company and I can say the quality is
upberb. The nice thing about the Nucleus 5 is that it is
water-resistant and the ear-level design is great. I went from a
heavy Spectra bodywear in ’92 to this ear-level device, so you
know you can count on Cochlear to stay cutting-edge. Of course,
I am biased, so I would encourage you to speak to other CI
users.
I would also encourage you to think about his rehabilitation
program and speech therapy… I recommend auditory-verbal therapy
because these therapists will help your son learn to use what
hearing he has and using the most of his cochlear implant to
improve his speech and listening skills.
Please, please do not take those listening demos seriously.
There’s just no way anyone can hear the way a person with a
cochlear implant can. In fact, that’s why we have mapping. Every
cochlear implant user hears differently from another one. I can
hear all the original sentences with clarity with my Nucleus 22
on that site. And your son will too in time.
Generally though, the more channels he has, the better it is
because there is a bigger range of low and high frequencies. But
that is for an audiologist to decide– they may even turn a
channel off for better clarity. I have four channels turned off
in my map.
Don’t be afraid. This cochlear implant technology is the
greatest gift you will ever give your child. I promise you.
Leah
Funnyoldlife (11:59:41) :
I will be writing a blog post on water resistance of cochlear
implants as there is a lot of confusion on this issue. If a
Cochlear CI-user damages their CI through water, they will void
the warranty – just check the Cochlear handbook. More details to
come…
Leah (01:15:26) :
@Funnyoldlife regarding water resistance of Cochlear’s cochlear
implants, there is a difference between a water resistant device
and a waterproof device. You can’t go swimming or take a shower
with it. Patients must understand the difference. But being the
athlete I am, I go to the gym a lot. So I sweat. Sweating is a
natural part of living. A little mist is also part of living.
I have noticed a tremendous difference between the Nucleus 22
device and the Nucleus 24 device which is the first
water-resistant cochlear implant. My Nucleus 22 would degrade in
ound quality much more quickly so I had to send it in for
replacements more often. It’s not so for the Nucleus 24 or
Nucleus 5.
I’m interested in seeing this statement by Cochlear– where did
you find this? If this is by accident, Cochlear will take cake
of you. Cochlear cannot guarantee that they can repair any
water-damaged part, but that doesn’t mean they can’t replace the
part or exchange it for a new processor.
Anonymous (02:21:45) :
As a Cochlear CI user like Leah who has been with Cochlear since
late 1980’s, I can definitely tell you that your information
about Cochlear voiding the warranty if CI users damages their CI
through water is absolutely false. Cochlear’s Freedom sound
processor has an IP rating of 44 which means that it is splash
proof. Recipients can play in the sprinklers with their Freedom
processor. Plus, people can get as sweaty as much as they need
to with while their sound processor is on. Cochlear’s Nucleus 5
ound processor has an IP rating of 57 which means that in
addition to the fact that it’s splash proof, it can be submerged
in still water for up to 30 minutes. This scenario is for when
people go canoeing or kayaking and if the processor accidentally
falls into the water, someone can pick up the processor without
worrying that it would be damaged.
The warranty will NOT be voided if the water gets in the
processor and if the person was using their processor
appropriately. It’s when if someone was using the processor
inappropriately such as swimming with it or taking a shower it,
the warranty of course will be voided.
As someone who has had processors being damaged due to water and
moisture being trapped in them, Cochlear has always been
delighted to swap my processors for new ones without any
problems. I know several other people who are Cochlear
recipients who had water or moisture damage their processors and
had no problems getting their processors fixed or swapped under
warranty.
Tina – would you please mind telling me your background? I’m
asking because you sound like you’re a “know-it-all.”
Anonymous (03:25:17) :
Here is information on Cochlear’s warranty regarding water
resistance:
“Excessive water damage
The warranty will be void should we find evidence of use in
water that is not in accordance with the Product’s water
resistance properties or with the care and maintenance
guidelines mentioned in your Product’s User Manual. Make sure to
consult your Product’s User Manual for proper use and care in
and around water.”
“that is NOT IN ACCORDANCE with the Product’s water resistance
properties” – This means that if the sound processor was not
used properly such as swimming with the sound processor,
warranty will be voided, but if the Freedom sound processor gets
wet from sweats or the N5 sound processor is submerged in still
water for no more than 30 minutes, warranty will NOT be voided
because it was used IN ACCORDANCE.
7 02 2011
Laurie (22:44:02) :
Hi! so Nucleus 5 is good for you? because that what I am getting
this Friday, on my day of surgery, it will be a month after
before they activiation it on. I am lookin for someone who has
experiences with nucleus 5 to stay in touch with and communicate
with.
If you are interest to let me know your experiences with Nucleus
5.
Thanks!
Laurie
1 05 2010
John Hopper (00:58:15) :
Tina
I finally got a chance to spend some time reading your blog. As
I imagined, you have done a fantastic job. I have a couple of
people that are interested in CI’s and will refer them here for
information.
You are quite an organizer and an asset to the hearing impared
community.
Keep up the good work. See You on HJ. (the avtivation video with
captions is awesome).
John
implanty zębów (01:28:20) :
Super text, I will add this blog to my favorites.
29 10 2010
Richa (11:25:17) :
Hi All,
I am planning cochlear implant for my sister. She has sever to
profound hearing loss. Her age is 20. She has an excelent IQ.
She has this hearing loss since birth but still has some speech.
I am confused about choice of hearing aid (Between Cochlear
Neucleas 5 and Digisonic.
Can some one help me here??? PLZ PLZ PLZ…
Funnyoldlife (17:21:51) :
Hi Richa
Are you looking at a hearing aid or a cochlear implant?
If you want a cochlear implant, there are 4 brands. You can read
the research I have done on my page about the brands at Choosing
a Brand. Alternatively, you can check out Sounding Board or
peak to a cochlear implant BEA mentor at Connect to Mentor (UK)
or Connect to Mentor (USA).
If you are looking for a hearing aid, then it would be best to
peak to an audiologist.
Laurie (22:45:17) :
I chosen Nucleus 5 because its newest tech, and its waterproof,
also it has a remote that helps you “zoom” in the sound of
conversation in large crowd, which i think will be very useful
for me. Its my opinion, I am getting C.I. surgery this friday.
14 04 2014
travis (18:47:34) :
go with AB clear voice would be best it will help filter out the
back ground noise
6 01 2011
Richa (10:54:31) :
Hi
Thx for your comment.
My sister has got operated. We chose Cochlear Neucleas 5.
Now i am quite apprehensiev about teh speech therapy and teh
results.
Can some one guide about best practices in speech therapy for a
cochealer implant patient?
and can some one suggest how much improvement can we expect in
her level of hearing ? Will she be able to talk on mobile? will
he be able to hear us from back?
She got operated a month back. Can you tell me what is mapping
and how crucial in the hearing process??
Thanks.
Richa
Leah (08:37:02) :
Hi Richa,
Congratulations on your sister’s new implant!
This is a very exciting time… and also a very scary time because
there are so many unknowns. I’ll share my story. I was born with
a profound hearing loss and was implanted at age 9, and I’ve
been using the implant for 18 years, and recently got a second
one on my other ear. It has been the greatest gift in life.
This is not something that magically happens overnight. Yes,
your sister will hear. But her brain has to learn all the new
ounds. And part of that process is by going to a speech
therapist. There are many different approaches to speech
therapy. I was learned in the auditory-verbal therapy, which
emphasizes listening and talking. That’s the therapy that I
would recommend for your sister, so that she can make the most
use of her cochlear implant.
Can you provide a little more background regarding your sister’s
hearing loss? How old is she? Where does she live?
Yes, she will hear crickets chirping and learn how to speak on
the phone… but it will take time and lots of patience and faith.
Don’t give up hope.
5 08 2011
Not all deaf people want to be ‘fixed’ | Hearing Aid News
(13:32:19) :
[…] more deaf people now have them, and they have become more
accepted in the deaf community (here is a fantastic blog
charting the jump from hearing aids to cochlear implants).
Several deaf people I know recently […]
6 08 2011
Not all deaf people want to be ‘fixed’ | Charlie Swinbourne |
Birmingham Link (14:23:26) :
25 08 2011
Not all deaf people want to be ‘fixed’ | Usefulref Best online
reference (17:32:41) :
Angela (05:52:16) :
I have nucleus 5 I had implant from april 7,2010 and had for a
year now and I am loving it everybit up til June 2011 got
infection and couldn’t wear it for few months i go back sept
29th..hope i wear again …I born with sevre hearing loss sinced
birth and worn 2 hearing aids from agae 2 up to 35 years old ,
when 35 years old hearing aids no longer helped me to hear so
took me about 5 months later, decide to speak to CI specialist
and ask all questioins I think of and all and so I speak very
well so i candiated for it …really great!!! I heard alot of
noises I never heard before…I loved it ..but hardest part is
hearing voices because of incoming noises in background
overwhelm me but I had speech therapist helped me throught it
and learn to ignore that noises but tell you worst place I went
is Mall , it went crazy I heard every little thing and noises
but couldn’t focus on human voices as well but regualr normal
hearing person tell u that that is normal they have that problem
too so not only me that overwhelmed but I couldn’t trade for
world how much I love hear my kids voices again and all
ometiems its frustration but we all not perfect and God made us
this way and brought us into this world and tells us to accept
who we are and this new techonolgy that was invetned and helping
us for our new future and Im glad this was invented and great
technology but I hope that one Im on not RECALL on it if so I
hope we all get whate3ver and contiue to hear with CI…..if you
all have anything u want to ask just ask me I tell u more
experience and more about it ,,,really miracle fo me …I loved it
13 11 2011
dana bray (21:18:44) :
hi i am real deaf for grow up since i get ci age 33 i love ci
for 10 year but i am 43 now i am cerebral palsy in wheelchair
also .smile i learn sound smooth i like it i happy
12 03 2012
yed zahir naqvi (18:30:35) :
my son is 12 year old i am from pakistan and he is dam and daf
and i need echo plant sergeory cochlear implant plz gide me and
hallp me
26 04 2012
Salvo La Rocca (21:05:22) :
Can you legally enter the United Kingdom (England), if so you
hould immediatelly seek to become a resident, register your son
as a resident and then obtain a national insurance number number
for him, once he his a resident of the UK you should bring him
to the Manchester Cochlear Implantation Center, there you will
find a possible solution to his problem..
It will be the best gift he will be receiving from you.
26 05 2012
click (15:32:29) :
Re: Whomever produced the remark that this was an excellent web
ite actually needs to possess their brain reviewed.
JudyHuntley6395@hotmail.com
Tina (15:38:06) :
Re: Thank you Judy for your kind comment! And your excellent,
informative website is….??
15 07 2012
Dave (17:17:16) :
This is a great website, i am on a waiting list for a CI op on
my left ear,i am bilateral profoundly sensorineural deaf due to
Cholesteatoma. I hoe to have CI op in late September/October. I
have spent a few weeks researching on the net for the best
uited CI for me, this website has helped me alot.
Many Thanks
Tina (17:32:29) :
Hi Dave, you’re welcome. Good luck with your hearing journey.
You might also want to check out the new website
http://www.cochlearimplanthelp.com and the shopping guide for
cochlear implants there.
20 09 2012
Schwartz Laser Eye Center Reviews : Improve Eyesight Without
Glasses (19:07:30) :
[…] 16.Cochlear implants « I look so I can hear…. This is a very
informative video as the surgeon comments on the surgery and
cochlear implants throughout. Well worth a watch in my opinion
as it you get the …
https://funnyoldlife.wordpress.com/cochlear-implants/ […]
11 11 2012
maria (17:52:38) :
I would like to know if the sound from a CI is the same with the
ound that a hearing person hears?..and if not how different is
it?…If someone knows and could inform me i would be thankful..
Tina (18:12:59) :
Hi Maria
I have asked friends who were hearing then went deaf and got a
cochlear implant (or two). They say the sound is mostly the
ame. There are a few musical notes which are not quite the same
– this is coming from trained musicians with a finely tuned ear!
and some say the quality is not quite the same – these users are
likely not to have done as much rehabilitation as those who say
the sound is the same. The capability of the cochlear implant to
give a very good replication of sound is possible with today’s
technology – I would recommend looking at the Shopping Guide and
comparing the ability of each implant to process sound. Your
brain will do the rest.
12 11 2012
maria (13:18:31) :
Thank you very much for your answer…I am very glad to hear that
the sound is almost the same :]
Have a nice day
9 01 2013
part (16:08:03) :
If one person receives cochlear implant , how much distance a
person can hear the sound effectively
18 01 2013
Kimi (06:55:47) :
Hi,
I have been research is there any massages therapy for cochlear
implant ? I have it since I was 6 now I’m soon 30s.
Hope hear u soon.
Kimi.
Tina (09:12:24) :
Hi Kimi
Can you explain more. Massage therapy for which part of the
body?
23 01 2013
Kimi (06:02:14) :
I just wondering if anyone had massage at head area where
cochlear implant at. Or any information for massage therapy
chools that study about cochlear pains or sores try to erased
the stress free pains ? I have hard times find one around to do
that kind learning about healing for cochlear in head. Tea tree
oil helps but I want more… Deep look up for study on cochlear
massage. More people use cochlear they need more massage therapy
for that. Have u ever touch Ur head where cochlear implant at u
feel different it something.
5 03 2013
Thorsten (21:44:43) :
Thank you so much for this site. I went deaf during the last 20
years, nothing is left on my left site, on my right I’ve got HA,
but it is going down very fast. I actually made my decision for
a CI and hope to get it by June. After my research I prefer the
Cochlear Nucleus 5 and hope this will be the right choice.
2 years ago my doc have told me, that I’m a good candidate for a
CI, cause I was not deaf born and my brain will adapt the
ignals very soon. It had been a difficult decision for me, not
while I’m afraid of the surgery, but getting loss of my
cranio-sacral move ability. While I’m working as an osteopath it
is the major rule, that everything in the body has its free move
ability, especially the bones of the skull, meninges and nervous
ystem.
@Kimi a osteopath or cranio-sacral therapist is the one you are
looking for. He may help you. You describe the thing, I’m most
afraid of.
But I made my decision for me, my family (I’ve got a 3 year old
daughter talking sooo much I would like to understand better)
and now I am looking forward to june
Excuse my writing, I’m not native…
Thorsten
Age, 38
Germany
Tina (21:59:37) :
Guten Abend Thorsten,
Congratulations on starting your CI journey. Please make sure
you check the latest, and unbiased, cochlear implant comparison
chart at http://cochlearimplanthelp.com/
I would be interested to know how you made your choice. A lot of
people choose their CI based on size alone….
7 03 2013
Thorsten (08:20:55) :
I´m on my way and doing my due dilligence^^, my head is feeling
like a steam engine. the cochlearimplanthelp.com site is giving
me alot of information, but of course a lot of questions too.
In my understanding so far it is basically important, that the
part wich are implanted are the best, cause you can´t change
without another surgery. All outer head parts could be changed
or upgraded.
I have a question about the Elektrodes, Channels and these
pitches.
The Cochlear parthas got 22 Elektrodes, which themes to be more
than the 16 elektrodes the AB have got. But in my understanding
the AB Processor and Software (Fidelity 120) is able to pimp
this up, creating more virtual channels. The Cochlear Software
is not able to do so??
By starting my journey I was a little bit focused to the CI from
Cochlear and the Nucleus 5 , but now I´m not so sure, if this is
the best for me.
Maybe someone here can me help to understand this hardware stuff
and witch system is the better? What weight should I lay on the
hardware and what on the software?
Thanx a lot,
10 03 2013
Tina (20:58:05) :
Hi Thorsten
You should be placing more weight on the hardware as this will
tay inside your head for a very, very long time. Your software
and processor can easily be upgraded, but the implanted hardware
is only replaced when it fails or you have an explantation for
other reasons such as infection.
The most up-to-date and comprehensive comparison chart for the
major cochlear implant brands is at
http://cochlearimplanthelp.com/cochlear-implant-comparison-chart
/
THere is a good explanation of electrodes and channels at
http://cochlearimplanthelp.com/journey/choosing-a-cochlear-impla
nt/electrodes-and-channels/ You are correct in saying that
Cochlear cannot create virtual channels.
I have 3 electrodes switched off in each ear and my hearing
tests as absolutely fine in the testing booth, with 13
electrodes. My brain has more to learn in processing sounds, and
a simpler map has (for me) resulted in higher speech perception
cores.
3 09 2013
klmarkert (20:47:00) :
I just posted a reply below about upgrades. This is a very
important question. My son’s internal processor has been
upgraded twice. Well, more than that, but two very significant
upgrades. The external processors have been upgraded several
times, too. We’ve never had a problem with moisture, and he just
picked up his completely waterproof processor today. Next week
(hopefully) he’ll get his newest processor, with equipment that
can link it to external devices via Bluetooth. I’ve been doing
this with him (and his youngest brother, too) for about 12 years
now. The technology continues to blow me away, never stops to
amaze me.
The number of electrodes and channels may be important to you,
but also look at the dynamic range of input, the amount/range of
ound that can be processed at one time. How many decibels?
Speech and music at the same time? My son does well with speech,
but also a wide range of other sounds, to include music.
klmarkert (20:41:19) :
RE: water resistance… My son just had his second CI activated
today, is now “bilateral”. There is a difference between water
resistance and water proof. We’ve never had any problems with
moisture at all, but he just received an actually waterproof
processor today, and can’t wait to use it.
RE: upgrades of internal processor… The internal processor
oftware CAN be upgraded. My son has lived through two very
amazing upgrades already. A deaf bilateral CI adult (post
lingually deaf) described the difference as going from scratchy
AM radio sound to FM, then from FM to CD, then high res
w/hearing individual instruments and notes vs. just music. You
do have to think long term, potential for future upgrades, not
just the flashy pieces you see in front of you now. My oldest
on is now fully mainstreamed in 10th grade, advanced courses,
Arabic (B last year), no outside support, not even an FM. We
never stop being amazed at the possibilities he has ahead of
him.
He’s had his first implant for 12 years, is now sitting in front
of the TV with only his new implant processor on (newly
implanted ear), watching with GOOD closed captioning. He says he
hears patterns right now, softly. When both are on he hears kind
of an “echo”. And he’s quite excited. What amazing technology!
:)
22 09 2013
Julie Ladeira (16:28:16) :
Does anybody have experience with hybrid cochlear implants?
26 09 2013
Sheri (13:12:20) :
I’m back and with wrap-up questions this time. I understand AB
reps will fully support the product they represent (sounds a bit
redundant). Med-El reps do the same. However, without the
upport of an audiologist and surgery scheduled within 3 weeks,
I really need a bit of advice. While I’m more adept at the lingo
than I was some months ago, I need a bit of a break if I mess it
up. I’ve worn BTEs since ’64/’65 and that is truly my area of
expertise.
My choices are Med-El that offers the Rondo “free” as a second
processor. and nothing is free. The Rondo eats 675 batteries at
a rate of three/week. That’s expensive. I know the pros and cons
to the company (most importantly, they are not publicly-owned).
I’ve viewed the comparison chart a number of times. My biggest
concern was the joules but the difference between them is small
(I ride a motorcycle and just tend to drop them from a dead
top).
My other choice is AB. AB offers a second unit only if I go to a
hospital in NC and the fact that the rep offered that info last
week knowing I had been to Chapel Hill (I told them I would not
go back to have surgery there) and am now going to TN
(Vanderbilt). The AB rep. recommended Duke and I clearly said NO
– I cannot go to a third hospital. She has recommended the
Naida, of course. My concern is while NC hospitals offer a
econd processing unit, TN does not. It’s marketing, I get that,
but it appears rather important.
I understand everyone processes sound differently. I grew up
hearing and had the ability to listen to wonderful music. I’m
also 59. So, an implant that lasts 20 years is likely beyond my
lifespan based on family history.
Tina, if you feel this is beyond the scope of this forum, feel
free not to post it. It’s crunch time and no audiologist from
Vanderbilt has responded.
Tina (13:25:43) :
If anyone wants to respond, be sure before you hit the “send”
button. I’m mighty fed up with being asked to delete a string of
blog posts.
27 09 2013
Amit Soni (10:32:36) :
I am planning MED-EL opus 2 bilateral cochlear implant for my
2.6 yrs old daughter. She loves water activity more than
anything, so in future, I will have to go with Waterproof
upgradation. Is MED-EL planning for waterproof implant in
future? or I shall go with Advance Bionics which already has
this option? Please guide me as the surgery date is already
finalized which is 10th Oct. and I will have to finalize the
implant before 3rd Oct.
4 10 2013
Umair (11:50:11) :
My dad will have his first implant on 14th of October. I did lot
of research on the different devices available and which should
we choose and why. I like Med-El for having full cochlear
coverage. I like Cochlear for 22 electrodes and I like Advanced
Bionics for their 16 independent current sources of 16
electrodes so it should be programmed better for better sound
recognition. I checked comparison charts many times, I read all
the reviews. All messages, all videos on different implants were
checked. From the charts it looked like Med-El has better
cochlear coverage with their custom electrodes array and so
deepest penetration but our surgeon said that this may cause my
dad face muscles to twitch and may have to turn off a few
electrodes. After considering everything, I made up my mind to
go with Advanced Bionics new processor Naida ClQ70 with
mid-scala implant. To order the implant I met with my dads
audiologist. She’s helping patients and programming these
devices in our university hospital since 1989. I asked her all
the questions I had. She answered all then she said, “well
whatever your are saying about the devices and their
pecifications is true but frankly they all work the same and no
matter what you choose for any reason you will not regret. None
of these are bad. I have seen best performers and really bad
performers on all three devices. She added if you had come a few
months ago then I would have asked you to avoid Advanced Bionics
but I recently went to their new software training and I am
impressed with their new technologies and their new device Naida
ClQ70 is really nice.”
I still believe her recommendation to go with Advanced Bionics
was only because she felt that I was more inclined towards it. I
chose AB because I was told that its voice zoom and clear voice
technology helps better. So I was thinking even if the device
doesn’t perform the best, still it has bluetooth which will help
in talking on the phone, watching tv, and connecting ipad etc.
My father loves to watch TV so I thought it would be helpful.
I never took Cochlear as an option because I thought its too old
and with only one current source for all their 22 electrodes
there is not much you can do with the software and so the
devices are not future safe. But now I think, even though my
first impression was right but still, what they have currently
is more than enough for a person to listen and communicate
probably even better than any other device.
klmarkert (19:50:30) :
My PERSONAL feelings, you hit the nail on the head with
Cochlear. My oldest son has had his AB CI for 12 years now, and
he’s had multiple SIGNIFICANT updates to his internal processor
and external equipment which are just terrific. He is really
liking music, and even wearing his Neptune in the school pool.
When he received his new processor with voice zoom and clear
voice technology, he noticed a HUGE immediate improvement in his
peech recognition. An update from my older writing, he’s fully
mainstreamed in 10th grade now, with no FM system, only using
his cochlear implants.
With the implant company now under the hearing aide company, the
bluetooth integration is wonderful, too.
I can only speak personally re: Advanced Bionics, but we are
absolutely thrilled that we chose this brand. Simply put:
excellent upgrades of all equipment (internal and external),
waterPROOF (not “water resistant”), music recognition. I don’t
care how many wires/electrodes are in the head, if you don’t
have the processing power to handle a large window of input to
accommodate speech AND music, you’re missing something.
My deaf son, with his CI, talks on the phone, plays the
clarinet, is fully mainstreamed in school w/o any additional
audio accommodation, I very highly recommend Advanced Bionics.
12 05 2014
Nasir (00:10:42) :
I got CI in 20th Feb2014 after a long process and waiting. UCLH
how me few companies lop and aid to chose so I select one
(simple small remote control) and they put the other one in my
head (bigger manual) that I havnt selected that I come to know
when they call me to activate the lop and aid on 02 April 2014
…. I was very disappointed staff said we are sorry its first
case in the history of University Collage London Hospital. As I
ee that I was shocked and though not to use it but I havnt got
any other option so I let them activate it. I am constantly
using it but there is no difference I cant recognize any
voice/word but I do detect most of sound now .. I would like to
ay I let them did a terrible thing to me because from my left
ear I can hear 30%and in right ear (CI) some disturbance voices
I don’t know how long it will take that I will be able to hear
properly or at least some…..
In my opinion CI should be for complete deaf person.
What I can do about their mistake/negligence I am very unhappy
and there is no peace of mind.
Any suggestion , idea.
Sincerely
21 07 2014
MinusTinnitus (10:56:41) :
You mention that sometimes a cochlear transplant will eliminate
tinnitus for those people who are afflicted with this symptom.
Can I just add that in my experience (and I bow down to those
who are far more clued up than I) that this is probably down to
the retraining of the auditory sections in the brain after the
implant as this type of retraining therapy does have quite a
good success rate with tinnitus sufferers.
5 08 2014
Pamela Pawlik (19:51:28) :
Has anyone heard of repeated failures of Cochlear’s CI512? I
went through the fiasco of explant and reimplant in August of
2011 due to intermittent failures of a 3-month old implant. I
was reimplanted with another CI512 two weeks prior to Cochlear’s
recall (and before root cause of the failure had been
determined). Yesterday I experienced a brief intermittent
failure and don’t know if it was just a fluke or an indication
of future total failure as it happened three years ago. I’m
trying not to panic and am hoping to learn of any information
regarding a repeated experience of this type of failure.
7 08 2014
Christina (16:50:25) :
Thanks for this blog.. I appreciate the insight you’ve provided
for someone who is deciding on a cochlear implant… I am
bilaterally implanted myself with the Medel. I’ve been using
their new Opus2 processor on one ear (I can’t wear bilateral at
this time because insurance won’t cover anything). I got Opus 2
as a result of an upgrade which made my old processor obsolete,
and I am VERY disappointed.
First, the equipment is very cheap- I’ve had it a year, and the
battery prongs are already bent. I am sure this has some affect
on the amount of batteries I use- but it is absurd that I have
to use 9+ 675 batteries a WEEK.(these things are NOT cheap!) Oh,
listen to music on headphones, you’re gonna burn through more.
It is absolutely ridiculous.
I was stoked when I found out about Opus 2- a digital, remote
operated that was supposed to be better all around. BUT the
remote is a joke- the first time I used the Telecoil setting-
that acts like a bluetooth on the phone and eliminates all
background noise: BUT it shorted my car’s computer! Soo after
that FIRST experience, I haven’t used that setting; and thus
don’t get this perk.. Sadly though, the remote barely works half
the time..
Sorry to be so negative regarding the Medel.. in the 13 years
I’ve had them, it’s hit and miss on the quality for sure… they
hould start putting “Buyer beware” as I have had “new”
equipment break same day I receive them! worst experience EVER
for me- and sadly-unless I disconnect completely- it’s never
ending.
Ps. microbatteries.com is a good place to buy a variety of
batteries, at low cost.
Terri (03:41:16) :
I am trying to figure out how my father will do with an implant,
and learning to hear all over again, for he has dementia and is
getting worse. With the therapist helping him, I am afraid he
will not comprehend why he is there. Has anyone gone thru this
with their parent. Thanks.
22 10 2014
James (17:40:29) :
I will have a CI tomorrow. Since I am an IT consultant and used
a Phonak with Compilot for years, I decided to go with .Advanced
Bionics I was impressed with the latest technology for
communication with my clients via Bluetooth on my cell phone.
Also, I like that I can use the Compilot with with both my
hearing aid in my left ear with the cochlear in my right ear.
During the month of March, 2014, my right ear took a dive and
never regain.
23 10 2014
Tina (23:27:04) :
Good luck James! AB have such a great product :)
27 10 2014
James (19:02:33) :
My CI surgery on 10/23/2014 went well. Now, the waiting time for
the post-op visits. I only had one crazy experience when I
coughed during the first day while walking back to my house with
the mail in my hands. I actually went sideways against my wall
and ended up having ringing in my ear that evening. My advice,
leave the mail in the mailbox until you have rested for a few
days. Checks and bills are not going to fly away and do not
forget to open your mouth when you cough.
Tina (23:08:34) :
Congratulations James – and don’t blow your nose! That will
knock you into next week.
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Enter your comment here...
____________________________________________________________
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
IFRAME: googleplus-sign-in
Gravatar
Email (required) (Address never made public)
____________________
Name (required)
Website
WordPress.com Logo
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.
( Log Out / Change )
Twitter picture
You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )
Facebook photo
You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )
Google+ photo
You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )
Cancel
Connecting to %s
[ ] Notify me of new comments via email.
[ ] Notify me of new posts via email.
Post Comment
Feed
[a14.png]
Blog Stats
Twitter feed
funnyoldlife.wordpress.com/2015/10/31/tra… https://t.co/6cRdLDJVL2
2 months ago
funnyoldlife.wordpress.com/2015/07/19/lip… 5 months ago
http://t.co/74rLuZct1j 6 months ago
cochlearimplantHELP
An comprehensive, unbiased examination of the cochlear implant journey,
for users and would-be recipients. cochlearimplantHELP
[127469310608676.1388.1000192506.png]
Recent Comments
Tina on Cochlear Americas issues a…
Estelle Snider on Cochlear Americas issues a…
nicole on Should Cochlear Americas issue…
Nicole thiefoe on Cochlear Americas issues a…
Kathy Madden on Cochlear Americas issues a…
Molly Brown on The glory of artificial h…
DGray on Helmets and cochlear impl…
terpstube on Lipreading the dregs of h…
Howard Samuels on HLAA Convention 2015
access Access to Work Advanced Bionics alarm Art audiogram background
ound BBC benefits bilateral BKB BSL campaign Captel captioned
telephony captions cinema ClearVoice cochlear Cochlear Americas
Cochlear implant Communication Deaf deaf awareness deafness disability
discrimination DLA drink education electrodes film fire food Freedom
Pass hard of hearing Health hearing aid Hearing aids Hearing Dog
hospital lipreader lipreading mapping marathon movies music NDCS noise
Ofcom petition Phonak phone restaurant RNID see hear sign language sms
ound speech therapist sport subtitles tag Tate technology textphone
text relay theatre tinnitus transport travel TV Typetalk video relay
webcaptel
Translate this webpage
Category
Category[Select Category________________]
RSS SMS Today
business, says txtNation
RSS Phoneability
RSS DeafRead
2016
Willard
CI websites
Deaf blogs
Deaf Concessions in the UK
Deaf links in the UK
Other blogs
Other links
Search for accessible business and service providers powered by Direct
Enquiries
Archives
Archives [Select Month__]
Locations of visitors to this page
BritBlog Industry Blogs Blogarama - The Blog Directory
[blogburst_80x15.gif?id=B9PnOcPppBq7z5kj3SMvGqQT] Lifestyle Blogs -
BlogCatalog Blog Directory [button3.png]
Yes, we care!
Wellsphere.com
Site Meter Who links to my website?
Photobucket MyFreeCopyright.com Registered & Protected © 2013 I Look So
I Can Hear
Blog at WordPress.com. The Freshy Theme.
Send to Email Address ____________________ Your Name
____________________ Your Email Address ____________________
_________________________
loading Send Email Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
