RSS Feed

AllDeaf.com
Perks - Advertise - Spy - Who Quoted Me
Blogs
Recent Entries
Best Entries
Best Blogs
Blog List
Search Blogs
Go Back   AllDeaf.com > Deaf Interests > Hearing Aids & Cochlear
Implants
Reload this Page She's in BIG trouble!!!
LIKE AllDeaf on Facebook FOLLOW AllDeaf on Twitter
User Name User Name_ [ ] Remember Me?
Password  __________ Log in
Advertisement
Register Blogs FAQ Social Groups Calendar Search Today's Posts    Mark
Forums Read
Closed Thread
Page 2 of 3 < 1 2 3 >
Thread Tools Display Modes
Old 10-09-2015, 02:09 PM   #31
hoichi
Registered User
hoichi's Avatar
Join Date: Dec 2013
Location: Dancing my way to oblivion
Posts: 5,187
Likes: 207
Liked 653 Times in 512 Posts
Quote:
Originally Posted by BleedingPurist View Post
This is definitely one of those things that she will thank you for down
the line. Well done!
Can you also see the future for the lotto?
__________________
..."sign will set you free". a genie signed to me. as a mirror now
reflect it. to other hands into other eyes, signs our greatest
treasure, its light wants to be shared
..im ...that shadow with a cigarette, A Deaf guy who knows whats at
take.....
hoichi is offline
View Public Profile
Find More Posts by hoichi
Old 10-09-2015, 05:35 PM   #32
Condor1970
Join Date: Oct 2014
Posts: 104
Likes: 0
Liked 58 Times in 29 Posts
No hoichi, no one can see the future. But I do know that my daughter
actually gave me a hug today, and said she understands now, and is
orry for wasting her whole summer playing on the computer, when she
was supposed to be playing/talking with her friends and working on
rehabilitation with her CI. Now, she's even regretting that basically
missed one of the best summers we've had in a decade, locked up in her
room with the shades drawn playing on that stupid teenager website.
What a waste of life.
No, I am not a CC. I never said I was. Nor would I want to bring up my
children in that kind of environment. I was simply making a point that
ometimes achieving goals is very hard, and you have to deal with the
unfortunate obstacles along the way. My point is that more often than
not, humans are generally very lazy. This is a fact. If for one minute
we feel as if we don't have to work for something, we won't. One does
not succeed in life by being lazy. They succeed by working hard, and
ometimes having to put up with a lot of difficulties. In fact, even
when those who are coddled and manage to succeed, it is only when we
face adversity, that we truly excel.
For anyone on here to think I don't love my daughter, then you don't
know what love is. Loving someone is not just touchy-feely affectionate
nonsense. Of course I have great affection for my daughter. Why
wouldn't I? But, it's not just about how you feel. Loving is what you
do. Sometimes, that love can be a bit tough, but in the end, it is
worth it.
She's actually one tough kid (mentally). And yes, I do understand her
feelings. I know what it's like to be different. So don't tell me I
don't understand my daughter when not one person on here even knows who
he is.
Likes: (2)
BleedingPurist, geoff
Condor1970 is offline
Find More Posts by Condor1970
Old 10-09-2015, 05:41 PM   #33
Originally Posted by Condor1970 View Post
No, I am not a CC. I never said I was. My point is that more often than
ometimes having to put up with a lot of obstacles. In fact, even when
those who are coddled manage to succeed, it is only when we face
adversity, that we truly excel.
know what love is. Loving someone is not just touchy-feely nonsense
about how you feel. Loving is what you do. Sometimes, that love can be
a bit tough, but in the end, it is worth it.
So, you maneged through threats and coercion to get your daughter to
dance to the tune you dictated.regardless of what ever she was feeling
or even thinking or her own wishes...
And she has given you a hug. And has submitted.
Fair enough.
Hope this.behavoir youve instilled in her, works for her when she faces
other threats and other coercions..
Judging by the hug..
Its looking grim.
Good job
(Pats you on the back)
Likes: (3)
Bottesini, dogmom, Jezie
Old 10-09-2015, 05:48 PM   #34
Bottesini
Old Deaf Ranter
Bottesini's Avatar
Join Date: Mar 2008
Location: HFA
Posts: 43,008
Blog Entries: 2
Likes: 1,696
Liked 1,718 Times in 935 Posts
During the Korean War, my dad was an unarmed combat instructor , and a
military policeman escorting dangerous people on trains.
I had a similar upbringing to your daughter, although mine also
incorporated extreme physical abuse. Not just the mental.
That made me decide how I would raise children if my own.
In addition to making sure that the people who raised me had minimal
contact.
I definitely learned how to be sweet and agree to try to avoid the
abuse.
Of course as an adult I don't take much guff from anybody
Likes: (1)
dogmom
Bottesini is offline
Find More Posts by Bottesini
View Blog
Old 10-09-2015, 05:57 PM   #35
caz
caz's Avatar
Join Date: Oct 2006
Posts: 3,046
Likes: 510
Liked 520 Times in 412 Posts
Bot I had the English version of your upbringing my biological dad was
American but I was brought up by father British army Korea mental
physical abuse I left home soon hit 16 and lived on own wits.
although not deaf then I had other problems like total fear of
parents..
I made same promis my kids would never have upbringing I had...To this
day I won't have brass in my house Saturday morning I had polish all
brass in house and God help me if pin prick of dirt it was thrashing
not slap
HELLO!
caz is online now
Find More Posts by caz
Old 10-09-2015, 06:07 PM   #36
Originally Posted by caz View Post
I'm truly sorry if you're life was miserable as a child. My kids
however, basically get whatever they want. Seriously, if anything, I do
dode them a bit much sometimes, by rewarding them for hard work. As a
result of their hard work in school, and help around the house, my
girls have just about every hi tech gadget, and fashionable clothes
their little hearts desire. All because they work hard and earned it.
A good example is when my daughter begged for 2 years to learn how to
play piano. So, I made a deal with her. I would buy her a piano, but
only if she took lessons. If she quits lessons, then I sell the piano.
My point, was that if she wants me to spend thousands of dollars on a
piano and lessons, she will learn how to play it properly and be
committed to learning how to play such a beautiful instrument. She's
been playing for 5 years, and still going. She loves it. Sometimes, she
does get a bit bored with it, but still plugs away, because she
progresses slowly as time goes on. She also does not want to lose her
piano. ie. consequences to your actions and inherent laziness.
Same goes for spending $100,000 of insurance for a CI.
Funny thing. She even admitted to me this morning she really isn't to
worried about other kids bothering her, because she has long hair, and
you can't even see her wear the silly thing. She's staring to
understand very quickly that no one cares if she has a CI, and it ain't
no big deal.
I think the real main reason, is that partly she doesn't want to feel
different, and also got just plain lazy.
Old 10-09-2015, 06:11 PM   #37
You sure have a gift, for missing the point..
I grant you that..
Old 10-09-2015, 06:55 PM   #38
Join Date: Feb 2009
Posts: 7,731
Likes: 381
Liked 403 Times in 263 Posts
Condor,
My mother was raised by a very physically abusive and emotionally
abusive and manipulative mother.
I think that "touchy-feely" as long as it genuine, is important- not at
all "nonsense" and loving has as much do with how you express
things/feelings, etc, as to do with "what one does". They do NOT have
to be exclusive.
True loving is not purely about coercion or manipulation or about
performance.
and you missed my/others' points as well as Hoichi's-
dogmom is offline
Find More Posts by dogmom
Old 10-09-2015, 07:56 PM   #39
BleedingPurist
Join Date: Jan 2012
Posts: 552
Likes: 79
Liked 52 Times in 31 Posts
Originally Posted by dogmom View Post
Your points amount to projecting your own issues on a young lady you do
not know and engaging in undue criticism of parenting that has been
excellent when you stand back and look at it objectively. There is way
too much "boo hoo, I suffered in my childhood and in school because I'm
deaf" on this forum leading pushing a social life over preparing for
life.
She wants to hear. Wanting to hear with a CI is like wanting to get in
hape. It's not gonna happen sitting at home doing nothing. So any
projection of "I want to be deaf, so I'm sure she wants to be left
alone to be deaf" is off the mark.
She also needs to strengthen her sense of how she carries herself being
what determines how people perceive her, not the other way around.
Likes: (4)
ambrosia, Annie09Z, geoff, rockin'robin
BleedingPurist is offline
Find More Posts by BleedingPurist
Old 10-09-2015, 07:59 PM   #40
LoveBlue
LoveBlue's Avatar
Join Date: May 2010
Posts: 6,303
Likes: 1,198
Liked 1,173 Times in 672 Posts
Originally Posted by whatdidyousay! View Post
And you can stop with your generalization ! I am a baby boomer and my
mom didn't have one 'how to bring baby book' in the house and either
did I with my baby ! The only Spock I grew up with was Mr. Spock.
:dunno;
Severe-to-profound hearing loss in both ears.
SD @ 110db L-62% / 100db R-84% - unaided
Phonak Naida IX UPs
LoveBlue is online now
Find More Posts by LoveBlue
Old 10-09-2015, 08:11 PM   #41
So exactly how have I coerced her? She was the one that wanted a CI
more than anyone.
Exactly how have I abused her? Taking away internet privileges for
lying? That's abuse? You must be children, or adults who never grew up.
No real parent would question that kind of discipline for their kids
lying to them.
Giving your children affection is vital. I am not arguing that. But,
giving them affection after they have lied to everyone, and abused the
freedom they were given, is not going to teach them anything.
She wanted to learn piano. And she made the decision on her own to
learn and practice. You think it's appropriate to spend thousands of
dollars on something, and then let it sit and go to waste? Or, would it
eem logical to make a basic ground rule that when you invest in
omething important, you see it through? That if you want something,
you have to work at it to earn it?
She begged for a CI. You think it's appropriate to spend $100,000, only
to have her not use it, and just leave it lying around like a cheap
cell phone gadget? Only then to find out that after all the affection
and leeway she was given for months to see that she has been lying to
you on purpose, because she just plain got lazy?
I even told her ahead of time, that it would not be easy, and that
wearing it might make her feel a bit out of place, but no one will
really care. She still begged for it, and wanted it. She was shown
urgeries on YouTube of actual implants, and she still wanted for it.
She even said she may want to be an ENT someday so she could do the
ame.
You people on here have absolutely no idea what you're talking about.
I swear if you people were the parent of my daughter, she either be a
knocked up teen, or a drug addict, based on your lack of guidance, and
tupidity.
So tell me, oh wise morons, if you just spent the last year petitioning
a multi-billion dollar insurance company, on behalf of the daughter I
upposedly hate and abuse, and finally actually got a legally notarized
insurance policy changed for the sake of getting her what she wants,
along with support and help from the school district and doctors, only
to have it wasted, what would you do?
Especially after your child wasted months of her life playing on a
tupid computer, accomplishing nothing with her life, all because I
gave the exact love, affection, and leeway you all spout your mouths
off is so important, only then to find out she stabbed everyone in the
back with her lies, because she got lazy? What would all you brilliant
ignoramus's do?
Please tell me. I am so waiting to read your responses as to how to
raise a child you know nothing about, especially when all your
o-called "unconditional love" ideals have already failed.
And as far as missing your points goes. They have nothing to do with my
daughter. Your points apply to you, since you were abused, mentally or
physically. My daughter lives one heck of free life to do as she
pleases, only to understand there are "some" rules and expectations.
Heaven forbid, she actually has to work to accomplish something. She
wasn't abused in any way like you were, so don't tell me she is being
brought up like you were. You're just lying to yourself and everyone
else on here hoping for some sympathy.
You have my sympathy to a degree, but you trying to tell me that I
abuse my daughter because I banned her from the internet, is an
absolute joke!!! Granted, I started this thread, but if you really are
that deluded into thinking my daughter is being abused, then you need
to simply shut your trap, and mind your own business.
What I find hilarious, is that I have discussed this at length with the
people here at the hospital I work at, including the chaplain, the
doctors, nurses, and even the local therapist who helps abused women
from domestic violence. EVERYONE is cheering my decisions to finally
put my foot down, and correct this situation.
I bet hoichi thinks not letting my children watch violent movies and
pornography is abusive too. I guess my kids would be able to do
whatever they want, with no consequences at all. How foolish. There is
a couple other people on this forum who warned me about the idiots on
here. They were right.
Likes: (5)
Annie09Z, BleedingPurist, geoff, rockin'robin, zajko
Old 10-09-2015, 08:41 PM   #42
So I guess you find it a little hard to take if people don't give you
unconditional approval?
Old 10-09-2015, 09:01 PM   #43
rockin'robin
rockin'robin's Avatar
Join Date: Apr 2007
Location: Jacksonville, Florida
Posts: 23,437
Likes: 2,035
Liked 1,408 Times in 836 Posts
It doesn't seem that the OP is coercing his daughter at all...she
wanted the CI...was showed movies of the surgery...and wanted to
"hear"... ...at 15, that's what she wanted...and 100K isn't peanuts
either!...People are saying she should have a choice of her own
body...and she did. Her father told and showed her the pros and
cons...she still wanted the CI.
I've heard of many deafies wanting the CI...and the Insurance companies
paying an enormous amount of $$ for it...then for them to just throw it
down....
At 15, she does have a sense of what she wants and doesn't want. One of
my sons wanted to play football....so I went ahead and paid all the
fees, uniforms, etc. Then he started to complain it was "too
hot"...but...he knew this to begin with...and I made him stick it out.
He's glad he did!
Same as for the piano...my nephew wanted to learn how to play, so my
ister bought him a nice piano...after a few sessions, he lost
interest....but...my sister told him..."you don't give up"...and today,
he is an accomplished pianist and plays drums also, has his own Band.
Annie09Z, BleedingPurist, geoff
rockin'robin is offline
Find More Posts by rockin'robin
Old 10-09-2015, 09:06 PM   #44
I don't think the criticism of the OP has much to do with the CI at
all.
There are different means to an end, and you can accomplish just as
much with kindness as with bullying.
Old 10-09-2015, 09:21 PM   #45
Originally Posted by Bottesini View Post
I fail to see how taking away addictive internet privileges after
getting lazy, and being lied to for months would be considered
bullying.
As a parent with actual children, kindness and affection was given in
pades for months after her surgery and activation. Only then to be
deceived, all while ignoring the rehabilitation requirements spelled
out by the medical professionals. People who know a heck of a lot more
than you.
If you'll all notice, after asking the so-called affectionate experts,
not one has a solution to the issue after all their so-called kindness,
love, and understanding had failed.
jag
Old 10-09-2015, 09:42 PM   #46
Reba
Retired Terp
Reba's Avatar
Join Date: Jun 2004
Location: South Carolina
Posts: 51,267
Likes: 2,108
Liked 2,972 Times in 1,727 Posts
It's not necessary to insult "you people" or call posters rude names in
order to make a point.
Restricting privileges, such as cell phones and computers, is not
AD members who have overcome horrible childhoods to become successful
parents themselves should be praised, not criticized. They have adult
children which they can point to as proof of success. Several of us
have years of parenting experience. My grandchildren are older than
your children.
That isn't to say one parent's method is better than another, per se;
not all children, even in the same family, need the same kind of
parenting.
Nobody here has attacked everything you've done, so there's no need to
be so defensive.
dogmom, hoichi
Reba is offline
Find More Posts by Reba
Old 10-09-2015, 09:59 PM   #47
. . . Especially after your child wasted months of her life playing on
a stupid computer, accomplishing nothing with her life, all because I
Since none of us are brilliant ignoramuses, how do you expect to get a
erious response?
Where has unconditional love failed?
That's a risk you take in posting your personal business here. You're
not always going to get affirmation responses. Honest responses, yes;
affirmations and strokes, not always.
And these would be co-workers and friends, all hearing?
That's hyperbole, and you know it. No one here stated that you should
let your kids do whatever they want without consequences.
BecLak, dogmom, hoichi
Old 10-09-2015, 10:01 PM   #48
whatdidyousay!
whatdidyousay!'s Avatar
Join Date: May 2009
Location: Earth
Posts: 25,950
Likes: 2,669
Liked 1,484 Times in 1,150 Posts
I am getting to understand were stand with your daughter and it sounds
like you guys had worked things out and that is great . Yes , love can
be tough and I was more concerned about being a good mom and not my
daughter best friend. I think that is what a lot of parents do today.
Mark England December 6, 1983 ~ February 15, 2015
RIP Mark , You'll not be forgotten .
whatdidyousay! is offline
Find More Posts by whatdidyousay!
Old 10-09-2015, 10:08 PM   #49
Originally Posted by Reba View Post
So you think that I'm being harsh after the first words out of the
mouths of "these people" were things like calling me a "Tyrant",
dictator, an "Abusive Parent", or that I'm coercing her, manipulating
her, not giving her choice over her body, and forcing her to do all
these horrible things?
Don't be so naive. Calling them "these people" is being quite generous
on my behalf, after their incredibly stupid remarks.
I can think of much better ways to express myself if you really want to
know what I think when I get called names that fall into the category
of criminality. It's flat out offensive. As a good parent, the first
thing they do is attack me when months of affectionate parenting skills
fail, and I am forced to apply discipline to solve a serious problem.
And for me to tell them they are an ignorant moron, when they actually
are ignorant of the entirety of the situation, yet claiming to know it
all, is just flat out worth the title. Like it or not.
If anyone should be apologizing it's the ones who think they know
everything about raising children, when I'm certain by their own
ignorance, some of them may not even have their own.
Oh and btw.... my daughter just called me on my wife's cell phone and
aid "Dad, you wouldn't believe it, I was downstairs watching TV, and I
heard Mom walking around upstairs with her high heels. I never heard
that before. OMG!!!" I said, "Excellent, good job sweetie!" And this,
after only 2 FULL days now of wearing her CI.
She didn't sound abused to me. Oh, WOE IS ME, that poor child...
boo-hoo.
Old 10-09-2015, 10:20 PM   #50
on my behalf.
Do you think your posts gain credibility if you use the same insulting
ways of other posters? Or would a reasoned response carry more weight?
If anything, angry responses could reinforce some ADers' opinions that
you're a bit heavy handed in your parenting.
And for me to tell them they are a they an ignorant moron, when they
actually are ignorant of the entirety of the situation, yet claiming to
know it all, is just flat out worth the title.
Trite but still true--two wrongs don't make a right.
Name calling, as any parent knows, just escalates emotions and resolves
nothing.
ignorance, some of them don't even have their own.
Let's see--caz, Botts, hoichi, RR, wdys, myself--all parents, some
grandparents (forgive me if I overlooked someone).
BecLak, Bottesini, whatdidyousay!
Old 10-09-2015, 10:26 PM   #51
Myself was an abused child, on the street at 15...my 2 biological
children were spoiled rotten...I would not discipline them. They did
not turn out well at all and I was and am heart broken over it....As
for my 3 adopted grandchildren, I used discipline, a totally different
approach to parenting. All 3 are successful and never been into any
trouble with the Law, gotton a DUI or a felony....We have to give kids
tructure...and consequences for their choices in life.
The OP is the parent and perhaps his parenting skills may differ from
others...it is his child and I feel he is doing what he feels and knows
is best for her.
Old 10-09-2015, 10:31 PM   #52
You're right, I won't call them ignorant morons anymore. I'll just
refer to them as "these people". I wouldn't want to hurt anyone's
feelings after they spent numerous posts slandering me as an abusive
parent.
I only get angry when faced with such stupidity that my intellect has
no course of action that "these people" can comprehend. It's like
trying to explain the fundamentals of subatomic macroscopic cross
ections to a stoned koala bear who ate too much eucalyptus. Sometimes
a good verbal lashing is needed to explain things to people who just
don't get it. Using superior language skills and excessive kindness is
omething "these people" actually use to attack others in order to try
and wave their own flag. And frankly, it's pathetic.
Will I use vulgarity? No.
Will I instigate an argument? No.
But "these people" certainly seem more than willing to do so. I won't
tand by and be slandered by them when they have absolutely no idea
what the entirety of the situation is, and don't know what they are
talking about.
How would you like it if someone out of nowhere suddenly verbally slaps
you in the face, calls you abusive, and then proceeds to tell you how
to raise your child?
Now THAT'S RUDE!!!
Old 10-09-2015, 10:41 PM   #53
And you fully realize that referring to posters as "these people" is
very patronizing and inflammatory. Sigh . . .
don't get it. Using superior language skills is something "these
people" actually don't understand.
More with the patronizing insults.
Using insulting language is hardly "superior language skills."
tand by and be slandered by "these people" when they have absolutely
no idea what they are talking about.
If we have misunderstood anything you've posted please feel free to
correct that misunderstanding. I can tell you right now, people are
less likely to accept what you post if you insult them. Same as you
don't accept whatever others post because they use rude language. It
gets nowhere.
BecLak, dogmom
Old 10-09-2015, 10:46 PM   #54
. . . How would you like it if someone out of nowhere suddenly verbally
laps you in the face, calls you abusive, and then proceeds to tell you
how to raise your child?
What makes you so sure that hasn't happened to me?
BTW, it wasn't exactly "out of nowhere." You made a highly-charged
original post on an open forum--you must have expected consequences.
Old 10-09-2015, 10:49 PM   #55
It was not a highly charged post. I was simply telling everyone what
has happened, and that as a parent, I was truly angered by the lies,
and deceitfulness of my daughter, whom I put great trust in. As a
result, I did what a parent needs to do, in order to stop a serious
problem when being kind and affectionate for months, horribly failed.
So, I'm one guy that got piled on by a whole gaggle of "these people",
got a bit defensive after being thrashed about, post after post, until
finally I made my case, and proved them wrong... primarily with proper
language, using only one insult, and you then spend numerous posts to
proceed to lecture me on how I need to be nicer and not insult people,
Ok Reba, when you take the time to start telling every single other
person in this thread that you just listed, who spent their time giving
me a verbal whipping, by accusing me of being abusive and manipulative,
then maybe you won't be such a hypocrite.
Come on Reba, let's see it! The next 10 posts by you had better be
individually titled to every other person you listed with a lengthy
lesson on verbal etiquette.
Old 10-09-2015, 10:50 PM   #56
and wave their own flag.
And I won't be stand by and have you call members here 'these people' !
You have admitted your title of your thread come on rather harsh !
'She in BIG trouble' . People that grew up with an abusive parent(s)
know every will what this meant! So of course any normal person would
be concerned about the child . I am not looking for you pity but I had
a drunken abusive dad so when I saw your a title red flag went up. What
would you think if a total stranger came up to you and said " My kid is
BIG trouble ! "
Old 10-09-2015, 11:00 PM   #57
Jezie
Jezie's Avatar
Join Date: Mar 2014
Location: Georgia
Posts: 1,613
Likes: 168
Liked 312 Times in 236 Posts
I am curious...you have made a lot public, and it has piqued my
curiosity.. Do you sign? Does you daughter have contact with the deaf
community in your area? Also curious, whose idea was the implant and
how did that come up?
__________________________________________________________________
Last edited by Jezie; 10-09-2015 at 11:42 PM.
Jezie is offline
Find More Posts by Jezie
Old 10-09-2015, 11:01 PM   #58
me verbal whipping, by accusing me of being abusive and manipulative,
They've all experienced my criticism at times in the past. They know
where I stand.
You're the newbie here. I'm not lecturing you. I'm trying to give you
ome insight into the dynamics here. Take it or leave it.
See my above reply.
I'm not here to play posting games. There's no need to hash the same
things over and over. It's time to get back on topic, so I'm moving on.
My closing thought--no one changes anyone's mind by using insults--no
one on either side of a debate.
BecLak
Old 10-09-2015, 11:06 PM   #59
So, you just assumed I abused my child without even reading it? The
first thing I said in the very first post, was she got her
internet/cell phone privileges taken away for lying...
THAT'S IT!!!
You have never heard of sarcasm? Sometimes when your child is in BIG
trouble, it just might not be a beating with a cat-o-nine tails, a 2x4,
or maybe a pillow case full of bars of soap. Just sayin'. It might
actually be something else.... like taking away a ridiculous electronic
gadget that she spends way too much time on. Maybe you need to read
first, and try to use some intellect to understand the context of what
is written before you just fly off the handle and assume I'm some kind
of abusive parent.
And if you have a hard time understanding plain English... Then ASK!!!
I'm not calling them names either. I am referring to them as "these
people" because it IS a group of very verbally offensive people that
are slandering me. So, I am not using insults anymore. Just referring
to the whole group of people as "these people". It's entirely correct.
Would you prefer if I sat and listed all those names in sequence, every
ingle time I refer to them? That's ridiculous.
Old 10-09-2015, 11:46 PM   #60
Barbaro
Barbaro's Avatar
Join Date: Jun 2007
Location: San Antonio
Posts: 1,597
Likes: 8
Liked 41 Times in 33 Posts
This situation feels familiar to me. You sound like my father. He
ranted about spending a fortune on private speech therapy on me for
years. Anyway, he finally had accepted it later. I do understand that
getting a CI is very expensive and so is speech therapy. I know you're
upset and betrayed by her act.
Why did your daughter get tired of her CI? Had she had any experience
like exhaustion and headache from wearing a CI? I read your previous
posts and other thread. It sounds like her mind get tired from
listening through the CI. Is that why she didn't wear it for a whole
ummer?
I think it's not a good idea for her to watch youtube videos about
others getting positive feedbacks from CI. She feels very discouraged
and probably jealous. That will make it worse. I suggest you encourage
her to talk to others (teen or early 20s) with CI in person.
You said that she was suppose to hang out with her friends during the
ummer. Is she not interested in hanging out with others? Or is she
just avoiding them?
We know what we are but not what we may be.
-Author:Shakespeare
Barbaro is offline
Find More Posts by Barbaro
« Previous Thread | Next Thread »
Thread Tools
Show Printable Version Show Printable Version
Email this Page Email this Page
Display Modes
Linear Mode Linear Mode
Hybrid Mode Switch to Hybrid Mode
Threaded Mode Switch to Threaded Mode
Posting Rules
You may not post new threads
You may not post replies
You may not post attachments
You may not edit your posts
BB code is On
Smilies are On
[IMG] code is On
HTML code is Off
Forum Rules
Forum Jump
[    Hearing Aids & Cochlear Implants___] Go
All times are GMT -5. The time now is 01:18 PM.
[-- Default]
Contact Us - All Deaf - Archive - Privacy - Advertise - Links - Top
Join AllDeaf on Facebook!    Follow us on Twitter!
AllDeaf proudly supports St. Jude Children's Research Hospital
Copyright © 2002-2016, AllDeaf.com. All Rights Reserved.
