RSS Feed

AllDeaf.com
Perks - Advertise - Spy - Who Quoted Me
Blogs
Recent Entries
Best Entries
Best Blogs
Blog List
Search Blogs
Go Back   AllDeaf.com > Deaf Interests > Hearing Aids & Cochlear
Implants
Reload this Page Choosing a cochlear implant brand
LIKE AllDeaf on Facebook FOLLOW AllDeaf on Twitter
User Name User Name_ [ ] Remember Me?
Password  __________ Log in
Advertisement
Register Blogs FAQ Social Groups Calendar Search Today's Posts    Mark
Forums Read
Reply
Thread Tools Display Modes
Old 09-18-2015, 10:56 AM   #1
miki
Registered User
Join Date: Sep 2015
Posts: 4
Likes: 2
Liked 2 Times in 1 Post
Choosing a cochlear implant brand
__________________________________________________________________
Hello, I'm a young 21 year old medicine student that is deaf.. I think
that im not
having enough with the HA so im certainly sure
I will get implanted( in process of doings the CT scan and such things)
I have a question... There are INDEPENDENT studies
howing speech comparision charts and such between the brands?
Everything seems some biased or studies founded by one brand...
You can give your personal opinion too.
please let me know if is allowed to talk about this..
I did extensive research and my main bet by far
is AB. ( my ORL told me that they only did Cochlear but is a lie, since
i contacted AB and they said that they did AB brand too in my hospital)
Also i'm a long time lurker here and i dont need that the user Hoichi
posts something against CI. is just irrational fear to
being excluded. Just grow up. i dont sign and i have my real
difficulties sometimes, but you get the joy of knowing a multiple of
people and their ideas and being capable to comunicate to everyone.
Also sorry for my english, I'm from Barcelona, Spain.
Thank you much!
Likes: (2)
aviateCar, drphil
miki is offline   Reply With Quote
View Public Profile
Find More Posts by miki
Old 09-18-2015, 01:35 PM   #2
outthpaw
outthpaw's Avatar
Join Date: Jan 2011
Location: Sparks, NV
Posts: 1,127
Likes: 13
Liked 274 Times in 180 Posts
Send a message via AIM to soutthpaw
I posted a thread before about the "Myth" that any one implant company
has better technology. Rather they each use different approaches to
design and programming. I can tell you that at least for Cochlear, the
hardware and software is far ahead of the research and current
programming knowledge and abilities. In other words there is still tons
of room for growth with the N6 processor and the various implant
arrays.
I've been involved in CI research studies at Cochlear America's and
talked with and discussed with their auditory perception research team
on many occasions. One of the things they are currently working on is
having bilateral implants wirelessly working together to better
localize and process sound.
Also those comparison pages like to tote features and numbers that 99%
of recipients well never use even close to the limits. I.e. The
imulation rate is one.
My suggestion is buy or borrow and read this book. Be sure it's the
econd edition. (First has different cover)
This book covers the latest/current processors from all 3 brands.
It explains every feature of all 3 brand devices and all the
programming options as well as what research has found to be optimal
programming for recipients. It's factual and non bias. If you are a
medical student it will make sense to you.
A lot better than the many biased opinions you will get here.
Personally for me, I would be a toss up between AB and Cochlear if I
was doing it all over again.
__________________
I choose Happiness over Society
Likes: (1)
outthpaw is offline   Reply With Quote
Find More Posts by soutthpaw
Old 09-18-2015, 01:43 PM   #3
Also keep in mind that if you have decent low end hearing the N6 can
function as a CI and Hearing Aid simultaneously.
Old 09-19-2015, 06:39 AM   #4
hello!! Thank you very much for answering..
I will try to borrow the book from my university library this monday.
Interesting what you say. I thought that the Cochlear electrodes array
was at max capability already since there are 22 electrodes that only
can stimulate one by one and AB has a lot of more(virtuals)(Also I
understand that our nerve have limits to be stimulated so doesnt matter
that much the speed of rates.. but more virtuals electrodes and more
features
means more possiblities in the future right?). since I will wear the CI
internal part for the next good 15-20y I want to be sure that wont be
obsolete soon(even if is 10y) so that is one of my reasons for choosing
AB...
Also the acustic stimulation of N6 do you mean the hybrid CI with
horter array? They no longer do that in Europe since induced
malformation and ossification of cochlea and the results were not
better than the full array...( But i would have been a candidate for
that.) If you dont mean that what do you mean? I do not understand how
could N6 do that.
One question too.. Whats the point of conserving residual hearing?
Would make better hearing with CI or its just to have the chance for
new terapeutical options in the future?
Thank you again!!
And sorry again for my english lol.
Edit: Also one the reasons i want AB is that they are the only brand
with access to HA technology that is much wider(more market...) Do you
think that is a strong reason!
Last edited by miki; 09-19-2015 at 07:44 AM.
Old 09-19-2015, 06:08 PM   #5
Nope they have a new array for the hybrid system that is the same
length. But it's much thinner. Cochlear can stimulate multiple
electrodes simultaneously. The #electrodes X PPS = STIMULATION RATE.
Research show that 900-1200PPS per electrode works best for most
recipients. 10 channels X1200 = 12000 stimulation rate. I had 2400pps
on my freedoms and never did well with them. Instant and significant
improvement when we changed the PPS to 1200. So those comparison sites
how all the big numbers yet virtually no one even uses them. This is
marketing hype. Also all 3 brand have very different strategies and
methods of programming and stimulation. You can't really do direct
comparison in many ways. Virtual electrodes is just a different
programming approach. Cochlear can and has researched it and not found
it worked as well for their devices. The processor chip is so powerful
there is lots of room for advancement of the tech with the current
processors from a programming and software perspective. Cochlear is the
only company with pre processing sound technology on the chip....
AB is a good product too. Many successful users. As I have Cochlear
brand, that's what I know about. Spent a few years in bi-lateral
research studies and got to talk a lot about the technical stuff with
them. I don't use hearing aids, but thought Cochlear was teaming with
Phonak or one of the other companies. If you are getting only one side
done, I'd talk to folks who use HA in the other ear as they well have
better input.
Old 09-19-2015, 06:28 PM   #6
onocativo
onocativo's Avatar
Join Date: Sep 2012
Location: House
Posts: 7,525
Likes: 609
Liked 1,016 Times in 490 Posts
Your doctor may specifically do CI as his preference. But there are
probly other doctors in the same building who do AB ... so if you
prefer another brand you will have to find the doctor who will do that
pecific brand.
Kindness is a language which the deaf can hear and the blind can see.
onocativo is online now   Reply With Quote
Find More Posts by sonocativo
Old 09-19-2015, 06:59 PM   #7
Jane B.
Join Date: Mar 2011
Posts: 3,369
Likes: 272
Liked 164 Times in 123 Posts
Quote:
Originally Posted by soutthpaw View Post
Phonak is teamed with AB all part of the same corporation any more.
Jane B. is online now   Reply With Quote
Find More Posts by Jane B.
Old 09-19-2015, 07:04 PM   #8
Originally Posted by Jane B. View Post
Thanks for clearing that up. For the OP. Have you contacted Cochlear in
your area and asked to talk, meet with a patient liaison person. They
can give you lots of info. Come back here after and ask more questions.
We will try and filter out the marketing hype and help you in your
choice.
Old 09-21-2015, 05:17 AM   #9
BleedingPurist
Join Date: Jan 2012
Posts: 552
Likes: 79
Liked 52 Times in 31 Posts
Cochlear's internal device to this day cannot stimulate multiple
electrodes simultaneously. That requires multiple power sources.
Cochlear's device has one. The current steering involved in virtual
channels requires multiple power sources. Cochlear may have dabbled
with the idea in a lab, but it cannot be done on the currently
available device.
Virtual Channels as marketing is like comparing SD TV to HD and calling
it marketing. The tech is very real as well as the quality difference.
You're going to be able to watch TV on both, but there is noticeably
more definition with HD.
It won't affect speech discrimination just as HD doesn't increase
facial recognition. Still, AB users overwhelmingly prefer the full 120
channels. The difference between that and 16 channels is very obvious.
It is more natural sounding.
While not FDA approved yet, AB's Electro Aucoustic equipment is already
in place with existing users. The Mid Scala is both a standard array
and "hybrid" ready array. Current and new users with residual hearing
will be able to take advantage of the new Q90 processor's acoustic
Phonak hearing aid ability upon approval, adding an additional
dimension to their hearing. A candidate doesn't need to wait for
approval.
There is also the fact that due to the current steering capabilities of
AB's internal, channels can be steered deeper into the cochlea for low
frequencies. If a recipient winds up losing their residual
low-frequency hearing, it can be replaced with direct stimulation. This
is impossible with Cochlear's L24 hybrid array. Once the residual
hearing is gone, it's gone.
Current steering is available only with Med El and AB.
Cochlear's most commonly used strategy is based on a simple 8 electrode
approach based off of CIS. I must admit I did like using 8 electrodes
when I tried using an older strategy for a while. The difference is
those 8 electrodes in play are roved up and down the length of the
array in Cochlear's device. (Each electrode fires one after another in
a sequence of 8 electrodes before repeating the sequence and moving the
8 active electrodes up or down the array depending on the most
prominent frequencies heard at the moment.)
BleedingPurist is offline   Reply With Quote
Find More Posts by BleedingPurist
Old 10-17-2015, 02:56 PM   #10
jag
Join Date: Apr 2006
Posts: 797
Liked 1 Time in 1 Post
I just got my 2nd CI. Since the one I received 9 yrs ago was a Cochlear
on the left, I went with the same on the right. Cant wait for
activation in a couple weeks!
What I told my daughter when she was deciding (her audi was pushing for
AB vs Cochlear) is look at what they offer that YOU may want, the bells
and whistles. To me they all do a great job helping people hear, which
I wont argue with. But what they offer extra might be what you want
now.
here in the US those external blue-tooth things were already approved
for Cochlear, the other 2 were going through the process (may be done
now). So she went with Cochlear, size of processors was also a concern
he had. Go with the one You want, if you like what you see about AB go
for it!
jag is offline   Reply With Quote
Find More Posts by jag
Old 10-18-2015, 02:28 PM   #11
HOH-ME
Join Date: Feb 2013
Posts: 471
Likes: 5
Liked 33 Times in 30 Posts
AB has hands down the best technology on the market. Cochlear is in a
distant 3rd. Many audis prefer Cochlear because that is what they are
used to dealing with. Cochlear is fine for someone that has never had
hearing or has had little hearing over their lifetime, but if you have
had success with HA's or where late deafened, Cochlear just can't
provide the array of sound that AB can. Accessories asides, it's what
is in your head that counts and AB is the best.
http://cochlearimplanthelp.com/
HOH-ME is offline   Reply With Quote
Find More Posts by HOH-ME
Old 10-18-2015, 03:10 PM   #12
Originally Posted by jag View Post
Advanced Bionics Naida Q70 was the first CI processor with wireless and
Bluetooth streaming on the market, available immediately upon processor
release in the fall of 2013.
Cochlear rushed the N6 out to compete with AB's release of the Q70, but
had significant delays in getting both approval for the wireless
treaming as well as getting the software ready for release. FDA
approval wasn't received until a year after AB already had their
wireless system out and then did not have the software available to
enable streaming until February of this year.
Old 12-16-2015, 05:52 PM   #13
Hey, its confirmed i'm a candidate for CI. I bought the book but didnt
have time to read it yet...
In my Hospital they only do Cochlear but if I ask they may consider
AB(i will probably ask tomorrow) but Im in doubt for ever(so many
diferent opinions..)
I really just want the most advanced internal(the array and such) since
i will have it inside my head for the next 20-30 years at least.(again
diferents opinions on this topic but seems AB wins on that)
thanks !
Old 12-16-2015, 07:30 PM   #14
appstter
Join Date: Jun 2012
Posts: 55
Likes: 0
Liked 4 Times in 4 Posts
Originally Posted by BleedingPurist View Post
When you say wireless does this still require a neck loop or can it
connect directly to the device? Reason i ask is my Phonak hearing aids
require the neckloop while my Resound hearing aids can connect directly
to my phone with no loop at all.
appstter is offline   Reply With Quote
Find More Posts by sappstter
Old 12-20-2015, 12:36 PM   #15
Originally Posted by sappstter View Post
The Phonak ComPilot is still the streamer used today. The neckloop
provides the connection to the processor. While Resound's system does
not use a loop, it still must be near your body for reliable streaming
to the hearing device and it's comparable product to the ComPilot, the
PhoneClip+, does not have an Aux input as Phonak's product does.
Phonak and AB have already announced they are moving on to a 2.4
completely wireless platform for the next generation.
« Previous Thread | Next Thread »
Thread Tools
Show Printable Version Show Printable Version
Email this Page Email this Page
Display Modes
Linear Mode Linear Mode
Hybrid Mode Switch to Hybrid Mode
Threaded Mode Switch to Threaded Mode
Posting Rules
You may not post new threads
You may not post replies
You may not post attachments
You may not edit your posts
BB code is On
Smilies are On
[IMG] code is On
HTML code is Off
Forum Rules
Forum Jump
[    Hearing Aids & Cochlear Implants___] Go
All times are GMT -5. The time now is 01:18 PM.
[-- Default]
Contact Us - All Deaf - Archive - Privacy - Advertise - Links - Top
Join AllDeaf on Facebook!    Follow us on Twitter!
AllDeaf proudly supports St. Jude Children's Research Hospital
Copyright © 2002-2016, AllDeaf.com. All Rights Reserved.
