Implant Blog - RSS

Katie-Louise's Cochlear Implant Blog
A Positive Journey with an Advanced Bionics Cochlear Implant!
Tuesday, 29 April 2014
Advanced Bionics Family Fun Day
Are you considering in getting a cochlear implant? Not sure which brand
to go for? Why not spend a day at Sherwood centre parc, Nottingham to
find out all the information you needs about Advanced Bionics.
To register click on the links
http://www.advancedbionics.com/content/ab/uk/en/get_connected/event_cal
endar/june/abfamilyfunday.html
[s_88.jpg]
- Posted using BlogPress from my iPhone
Posted by Katie-Louise's blog at 09:37 No comments: Links to this post
Thursday, 17 November 2011
Advanced Bionics Insight
Want to keep up to date with whats going on with Advanced Bionics??
Click the links to join Advanced Bionics Insight
http://abinsight.bionicear.eu/en.html
Posted by Katie-Louise's blog at 16:34 1 comment: Links to this post
ClearVoice
It's amazing how ClearVoice could make conversation a lot easier for
you. I have had it for over a year now. And even now....thinking about
it I realised how much it really does help. I was driving and not
realising this untill now that I am able to hear the passenger voice a
lot more than I used to. ClearVoice cuts out the sound of the car
engine, winds and traffic near by. As soon as the background noise
appear clear voice automatically kicks in. High Five to Advanced
Bionics for bring ClearVoice out!
Posted by Katie-Louise's blog at 16:06 No comments: Links to this post
Wednesday, 10 August 2011
Advanced Bionics Website
Some of you may have notice that some of the links for Advanced Bionics
on this blog page are not working. The website address has now changed.
While am currently sorting this error out. The website links is now
http://www.advancedbionics.com/
Are you deaf....Considering a Cochlear implant? Needs some
Advice/Support....Connect to a mentor here:
http://apps.advancedbionics.co​m/CTM/UK/
Posted by Katie-Louise's blog at 11:00 2 comments: Links to this post
Labels: Advanced Bionics, Advanced Bionics UK BEA UK
Wednesday, 25 May 2011
3 years later!
Can you believe it 3 years ago I went under the knife to get this
amazing cochlear implant. I was so nervous and I almost changed my
mind. I am so glad I went ahead with it. There nothing to be afraid of
when having a surgery - its a bit like getting a headache the next day
which doesn't last long. I can't believe how quick has it gone. I'm
loving this hearing journey - its the best thing you could ever ask
for. With my hearing aid I couldn't hear anything apart from loud noise
and I have to lip-read all the time. With the Advanced Bionics I have
now has help me to hear all sort of everyday environment sounds and I
can actually hear people talking too. I don't always hear every word
but I must say I don't lip-read as much as I used to lip-read and I can
now hear on the phone. Only to the people I know well. I am still
learning and there is more to learn. I never used to be into music and
I now can't go on a long journey trip without my I-pod. I've made loads
of friends especially world wide after creating this blog and I have
met up with a lot of people who are now waiting to get an implant or
has just had them. There journey seems to be going so well just like
mine! Here to the next 3 years :-)
Posted by Katie-Louise's blog at 14:36 4 comments: Links to this post
Tuesday, 24 May 2011
Continue Blogging
Well, its been a while since I have last posted on here. I haven't
topped blogging. So as from now, I will do my best to keep posting to
increase the awareness of what a Cochlear Implant is and also to share
my personal experience with wearing a Advanced Bionics Device!
I have changed the layout and I will be adding a TOP TIPS list at the
left side of the page. To follow my old post please check the blog
archive.
Posted by Katie-Louise's blog at 13:46 1 comment: Links to this post
Saturday, 2 October 2010
2010 Top Cochlear Implant Award!
I would like to say a big thanks to those that has nominated me for the
Top 15 Cochlear Implant Blog award. Doing this blog has inspired a lot
of candidate, cochlear implant users.
A BIG thank you to Nottingham Cochlear Implant team, Advanced Bionics,
friends and family for supporting me through this an amazing journey.
I also would like to thank Medical Assistant School for giving me this
award. To find out more about the Top 10 blog awards click here
'Medical Assistant School'
Top Cochlear Implants Blog
Thank you all for nominating me and for reading this blog.
All the best
Katie-Louise
Posted by Katie-Louise's blog at 21:50 3 comments: Links to this post
Older Posts Home
Subscribe to: Posts (Atom)
Click to Visit Advanced Bionics
"A life with "AB" is just amazing! Without this device, I don't think I
would be where I am now! " Click on the logo to find out more about
Advanced Bionic!"
Blog Archive
Katie-Louise Tips
Bloggers
laura's medical journey
merry christmas 2015
2 weeks ago
Cochlear Kids
11 Years of Hearing
3 months ago
Sound of Cochlear Implant
7 months ago
Turn On My Ears!
Progress Report - 2nd Grade
10 months ago
Hear the Sound
Whoops the Loop!
1 year ago
Anna's Sound Journey by Freedom Cochlear Implant
2nd day with N6 - in London
2 years ago
Loudest House on the Block
We were challenged today at our teacher's inservice to put
ourselves out there and WRITE.....
Sarah's Cochlear Implant
Trialling a Neptune
SURROUND SOUND
Vanderbilt Image-Guided Mapping Test Results
Laurie's Dance with Sound
HLAA July/August 2012 Magazine Cover
3 years ago
My Son Tom
Milo
Debs' Hearing Journey
Telephone
4 years ago
Gina Sprenkel - My New Life of Hearing
I'm a Saladaholic
Silent Sail
Happy New yEar
5 years ago
Subtitles wedding photography
Phone and Music with CI nearly 2years on
Kirsty's Cochlear Implant
NOT HEARING VERY WELL
CI Borg
Some Updates
Bionic Wombat - Bilateral cochlear recipient
July 2010
Amanda's Cochlear Implant Journey
Amanda update-March 10, 2010
Kate's Cochlear Implant
My final post? 7 months on
CHRONICLES OF A BIONIC WOMAN
Free Neckloop From Clarity If Attending HLAA Convention
6 years ago
deafgirllovessoaps
Today's Appointment
The journey of Claire's cochlear implant
3-monthly tune up
Dawne's CI Journey
Wow
7 years ago
the DeafBlog
Followers
Blog-Network
NetworkedBlogs
Blog:
Katie's Cochlear Implant Journey
Topics:
CI, BSL, Disability
Join my network
Number of Visitors
click for free hit counter code
html hit counter
Advice/Support From Experience Cochlear Implant users
Click the logo to find out more!
I was implanted in April '08. I have written about my experiences from
times to implantation to the present day. This would be a useful
resource for anybody who has been recently implanted or is going
through the assessements. I suggest you to look back at the blogpost in
April to the present date
There are useful Links to other bloggers or CI related are shown at the
bottom of this page!
If you have any question?
E-mail me bionic-katie@live.co.uk
or Join Advanced Bionics UK facebook group ; click here
Find me on Facebook!
Katie-louise Bailey's Facebook Profile
Top 15 Blog Award
A New Year 2009 Counter To See Where My Visitors are From?
free counters
Subscribe me
[arrow_dropdown.gif] Posts
[subscribe-netvibes.png] [subscribe-yahoo.png] [icon_feed12.png] Atom
[arrow_dropdown.gif] All Comments
Click the picture to enter their site!
Katie's C.I Centre
My Videos
Loading...
Myself & My Team In Russia
Richard & Me
Me and My Idol (Gareth Gates)
Useful Cochlear Implants websites
Me and the squad in Germany
Picture Window template. Powered by Blogger.
