Implant Blog - RSS

Katie-Louise's Cochlear Implant Blog
A Positive Journey with an Advanced Bionics Cochlear Implant!
Friday, 1 October 2010
I'm back!
Hey all,
It's been a while since I lasted posted on my blog. I know, I have been
hiding. Over the past couple of months I have been on a rollercoaster
ride - a big one! I had to have time out from alot of things. This is
one of the reason why I haven't been blogging. So, what have I been up
to over the past couple of months? Hmm, Let's see what I can remenber!
Early march wasn't a good month. I had an accident in football and
reptured the ligaments in the knee which forced me out of football for
a while and it has left me getting from A to B with these horrible
crutches that seems to get in your way all the time. So plenty of
physio treatments - they are so mean, especially when they like to hurt
you. But then again thats there job and its no pain, no gain! Now my
knee fixed I have spent alot of my time working on my fitness - alot of
running and strength training and so far I had a great start of the
eason. Lets hope the rest of the season wil be as positive as it is
now. Also got ill as well.
University - I had a bit of a downfall with family menber being ill and
I got ill myself which I had to have time out in. I did missed an awful
a lot of lectures and had a lot of work to do. So I actually spent my
whole summer trying to catch up. I caught up really well and pass the
year ...thanks to the wonderful support team at university. Just
tarted started universtiy last week. I was so weird to be back. It's
nice to see all my course friends again.
Summer '10 - didn't have much of a summer because the amount of
university work I had to catch up on but I did manage to spare one week
working at a children deaf camp. We had a full of fun fairs, beaches,
day trip which was a HARD experince and hopefully next year i'll be
doing some more camp work!
and finally - progress on my COCHLEAR IMPLANT.
As you all know I had a postive experince so far with my cochlear
implant having new CI moment hearing new things all the time. Advanced
Bionics has become part of me and it is something that made my life
much more easier. My confident has grown with communicating with other
and of course before the implant I refused to use my voice and now I am
forever talking; that's what my friends and family says. ha ha.
Now I have had my cochlear implant for just over two year now which has
gone ever so quick! I have still got a lot of things that I need to
work. Especially Identfying or understand where the sounds is coming
from. Which isn't always easy especially when you haven't heard as much
as you can now. I do have to say - not knowing where the sounds is
coming from or finding it hard to knowing what the sound is can bother
you. When I hear a sound and don't have a clue on what it is...it bugs
me, Sometimes it can make you very nervous. So that is one of the
reason why I don't like to be on my own. I do like to have company so I
have someone to ask what the sound is if I struggle to know what it is.
I do struggle to see where the sound is coming from. Hearing on one
ide is difficult and I do wonder if going bilateral would make things
easier and better. So...I am still waiting to see if I could go
bilateral - it'd be nice to hear out of both ears.
Anyway..... ClearVoice came out early this year. Late March I recieved
the ClearVoice setting on my processor. I have a medium setting. I do
have to say ClearVoice and made a big different in everyday situation,
especiallywith background noises. Ever since I had ClearVoice setting I
have found that communicating with other has become much more easier.
Also because I drive the convosation between me and a friend/family or
whoever is sitting in the passenger seat become much more easier too.
The backgroud sound while driving such as; car engine, traffic noise,
wind has cut out alot. I also notice that the music in my car is easier
to listen to now than before the ClearVoice. Not that. I play football
and in the changing room I do have problems listening became of how the
room is. Since I had CV it has help me to listen much better and now I
am much more confident. I have notice, well others has notice too that
my voice seems to have gone a bit quieter. I think that because the
amount of backgroud sounds has reduce my voice stays quiet and I don't
realise on how loud the room actually is without clear voice. So I have
to work on the loudness on my voice . So back at the speech theripst
again - a wonderful team to help me.
Anyway - BEA as I mention before in my previous post - I am still a
mentor so If you would like to ask any question about my cochlear
implant journey feel free to post me a message on this link and I'll
get back to you as soon as I can.
BEA UK
www.BionicEar.com/UK
Right, I'm off for a long run in this horrible rain. It's not long
before it snow - yep, xmas is just around the corner. Sorry to mention
it early. Ha.
Take Care
Katie-Louise x
Posted by Katie-Louise's blog at 16:46 2 comments: Links to this post
Friday, 19 March 2010
BEA UK - Get Connected with a Mentor
Bionic Ear Association UK - Get connected to a cochlear implant
community
Hear and Be Heard
The Bionic Ear Association is a support network dedicated to improving
the quality of life of individuals with severe-to-profound hearing loss
by providing valuable information, education, awareness, and guidance
on cochlear implants. Staffed with a committed team of audiologists and
cochlear implant recipients, the BEA offers important support services
to help you hear your best.
The United Kingdom Bionic Ear Association (BEA/UK) offers you a
community of cochlear implant recipients, families, volunteers and
taff, all from the UK, who can support you throughout your hearing
journey.
Connecting with other cochlear implant recipients and families is an
important part of the hearing journey. Through BEA UK you can connect
with other cochlear implant recipients or parents, who can assist you
in navigating the process of choosing and living with cochlear
implants.
Read our recipient stories, find a mentor, check out our online
community, and participate in the BEA UK community:
Posted by Katie-Louise's blog at 07:12 No comments: Links to this post
Labels: Advanced Bionics, BEA UK contact networks
Thursday, 11 March 2010
Invitation to - An AB Information Morning
Advanced Bionics (AB) invites CI candidates and/or their parents to an
information morning (10am-12:30pm) on 14th April at the Ear Foundation,
Nottingham.
At this event you will find out more about the unique Harmony Bionic
Ear System, the new ClearVoiceTM upgrade, performance & reliability.
There will be opportunity to meet and ask questions to ABs Clinical
Specialists and existing CI users.
If you would like to attend, please RSVP to events co-ordinator; e-mail
uk@advancedbionics.com
Posted by Katie-Louise's blog at 15:39 8 comments: Links to this post
Tuesday, 9 March 2010
Advanced Bionics UK Chat-Room/Facebook!
Are you a candidate and is going through your Cochlear Implant
assessment but has all these question that you would like to ask and
hasn't got any one to talk to well; AB UK CHATROOM is for you.
Join in the chat room every Thursday at 7pm and onwards. There will be
ome AB users online to answer your questions and to support you all
the way.
To join please sign up for www.hearingjourney.com click on "online
Community" and then click chat.
Also Advanced Bionics UK has now got their very own facebook group to
join there facebook group please click here: AB-UKfacebook
Posted by Katie-Louise's blog at 15:18 2 comments: Links to this post
Labels: Advanced Bionics UK BEA UK
Monday, 25 January 2010
Harmony Batteries!
Has anyone ever accidently picked up a used battery from the charger,
and didn't look at the led light to see how much battery life it had
and went out without a spare one, thinking the battery is not gonna die
on you till the end of the day? How do you all feel when the power cuts
off on you during the day?
My cochlear implant battery has never ever died on me through the day,
every morning I put on a fully charged battery and it would normally
last me a whole day (roughly12 hrs) and if I stay up later, I don't
normally replace it and just leave the implant on my head while the
battery flat.
Today, for the first time since I have had my Cochlear Implant, the
battery power actually went dead on me while at university. I
accidently took the wrong battery and it wasn't fully charge.
When it went off, I actually thought there were something up with the
processor. I was without my processor for the whole afternoon at
university. I didn't bring a spare one with me and I couldn't see if it
was just the battery. That afternoon, while I was at university, I had
only a note-taker and because I could lip-read the lecturer I had. we
had to work in groups and even though all my friends knew me very well
that I do lip-read a lot. I did had to warn my friends that my cochlear
implant has stopped working that they would need to tap me for my
attention rather than calling my name out. Thanks to my lip-reading
kill, I managed that afternoon really well. Not hearing through my
processor that afternoon actually reminded me what it used to be like
before my cochlear implant and how hard I had to concentrate. From now
on.... I must check the led light before putting my processor on. I
hate being without my cochlear implant now, it really does mean a lot
to me and when I have it on I really do relaxs more.
Posted by Katie-Louise's blog at 21:55 20 comments: Links to this post
Labels: Advanced Bionics, Contact Network. Batteries. University
Thursday, 14 January 2010
ClearVoice for HiRes Fidelity 120
2010 has come so quick, hasn't it? Anyway, I hope you'd a brilliant
Xmas. I have had a good Xmas, spend 2 weeks goin' from Scarbrough to
Manchester with my family and Rich's family. I actually lost count on
how many Xmas dinner I had, we visited so many places.
Anyway. I would like to say Happy New Year Everyone. I hope you all
will have a good year. I've got lots of things to look forward to,
especially summer. I just hope this year go pretty quick because this
time next year we should hopefully hear from the N.I.C.E guidance
(National Institut for Health and Clinical Excellence) and hopefully
they will finally say 'YES' to let us adults go "BILATERAL." I really
do want a 2nd cochlear implant and I hope to get it before I completed
my degree so I could go straight into teaching without havin' to worry
about another operation, or going the rehab process. So, fingers cross.
Just looked on Advanced Bionics website, thought I'd share this to you
all just incase you haven't seen it - ClearVoice - Revolutionary
Technology to Help Patients Hear Speech Clearly to find out more please
click on the links;
http://www.advancedbionics.com/CMS/Products/ClearVoice/
It looks very interesting and I am interested to see how much this
ClearVoice would help me too.
Right. I'd better be off. First day back at university tomorrow. I
can't believe how quickly this Xmas hoilday ended.
Ciao x
Posted by Katie-Louise's blog at 16:45 4 comments: Links to this post
Labels: Advanced Bionics, advanced bionics contact network,
Katie-louise
Saturday, 12 December 2009
Skin It - My design!
Those of you that doesn't know what is 'Skin It' Check out this website
www.skinit.com.
you can customize your sound processor to match your mood or make a
fashion statement. Dress your processor up with your favorite colors,
ports teams, or works of art. You can choose from hundreds of designs
or even upload your own graphics for a completely unique look.
"Lets show other that we don't only have fashionable clothes, we also
have fashionable procesoors"
Check out my design - At the moment I have decided to wear pink zebra
and Twilight "Edwards" mixed, I love Twilight, so I thought I put
Edwards on.
I have also got a few other designs such as 'St Geogre Flag'that will
used when I repersent England again, pink with Derby County logo on and
I have a Xmas one which will be used while I am in Scarbrough. (I will
try and upload thoses when I have put them on my processor in the
future)
Go ahead and Design yours now....
Posted by Katie-Louise's blog at 13:37 19 comments: Links to this post
Newer Posts Older Posts Home
Subscribe to: Posts (Atom)
Click to Visit Advanced Bionics
"A life with "AB" is just amazing! Without this device, I don't think I
would be where I am now! " Click on the logo to find out more about
Advanced Bionic!"
Blog Archive
Katie-Louise Tips
Bloggers
laura's medical journey
merry christmas 2015
2 weeks ago
Cochlear Kids
11 Years of Hearing
3 months ago
Sound of Cochlear Implant
7 months ago
Turn On My Ears!
Progress Report - 2nd Grade
10 months ago
Hear the Sound
Whoops the Loop!
1 year ago
Anna's Sound Journey by Freedom Cochlear Implant
2nd day with N6 - in London
2 years ago
Loudest House on the Block
We were challenged today at our teacher's inservice to put
ourselves out there and WRITE.....
Sarah's Cochlear Implant
Trialling a Neptune
SURROUND SOUND
Vanderbilt Image-Guided Mapping Test Results
Laurie's Dance with Sound
HLAA July/August 2012 Magazine Cover
3 years ago
My Son Tom
Milo
Debs' Hearing Journey
Telephone
4 years ago
Gina Sprenkel - My New Life of Hearing
I'm a Saladaholic
Silent Sail
Happy New yEar
5 years ago
Subtitles wedding photography
Phone and Music with CI nearly 2years on
Kirsty's Cochlear Implant
NOT HEARING VERY WELL
CI Borg
Some Updates
Bionic Wombat - Bilateral cochlear recipient
July 2010
Amanda's Cochlear Implant Journey
Amanda update-March 10, 2010
Kate's Cochlear Implant
My final post? 7 months on
CHRONICLES OF A BIONIC WOMAN
Free Neckloop From Clarity If Attending HLAA Convention
6 years ago
deafgirllovessoaps
Today's Appointment
The journey of Claire's cochlear implant
3-monthly tune up
Dawne's CI Journey
Wow
7 years ago
the DeafBlog
Followers
Blog-Network
NetworkedBlogs
Blog:
Katie's Cochlear Implant Journey
Topics:
CI, BSL, Disability
Join my network
Number of Visitors
click for free hit counter code
html hit counter
Advice/Support From Experience Cochlear Implant users
Click the logo to find out more!
I was implanted in April '08. I have written about my experiences from
times to implantation to the present day. This would be a useful
resource for anybody who has been recently implanted or is going
through the assessements. I suggest you to look back at the blogpost in
April to the present date
There are useful Links to other bloggers or CI related are shown at the
bottom of this page!
If you have any question?
E-mail me bionic-katie@live.co.uk
or Join Advanced Bionics UK facebook group ; click here
Find me on Facebook!
Katie-louise Bailey's Facebook Profile
Top 15 Blog Award
Top Cochlear Implants Blog
A New Year 2009 Counter To See Where My Visitors are From?
free counters
Subscribe me
[arrow_dropdown.gif] Posts
[subscribe-netvibes.png] [subscribe-yahoo.png] [icon_feed12.png] Atom
[arrow_dropdown.gif] All Comments
Click the picture to enter their site!
Katie's C.I Centre
My Videos
Loading...
Myself & My Team In Russia
Richard & Me
Me and My Idol (Gareth Gates)
Useful Cochlear Implants websites
Me and the squad in Germany
Picture Window template. Powered by Blogger.
