Implant Blog - RSS

Katie-Louise's Cochlear Implant Blog
A Positive Journey with an Advanced Bionics Cochlear Implant!
Friday, 11 December 2009
2nd Xmas with my Cochlear Implant
14 days till Xmas and still I haven't finished all my Xmas shopping.
University has kept me ever so busy - we had this big Science project,
which was interesting but hard and finally we have finished it. Feeling
positive about the overall project results. Just one more week left at
university then finally we get 3 weeks off, which is needed.
So, what have I been upto over the past few weeks? well, I have had a
few trip to Ropewalk Cochlear Implant centre; I had a slight problem
with my cochlear implant - struggling to control the sounds and feeling
uncomfortable in loud and quiet situation. Somehow when I'm in lecture
and the room is quie, it feels like my teacher who is talking to the
class that is stand about 5 metres away voice sounds as if she is right
next to me and when the voice is loud, I tend to feel it more. Not only
that, sitting in a canteen at university the loud background noises got
over the top and I got so uncomfortable feeling and hearing it.
So after seening my audiologist about it, it finally got sorted and now
I have some new setting and some loudness has been clipped and have a
programme where the volume is on lock to stop it turning it up itself
which now after 2 weeks with the programme, I have felt so much better
and is not seems to be having an problems at all - no more trips to the
Implant Centre till my 2year appointment, I hope.
Recently I went to the Ear Foundation Xmas Social and for the 2nd time
I've been on the microphone again doing the Xmas Quiz. I could see the
different in myself from last years quiz and this years quiz - I felt m
ore confident and I didn't worry too much about my speech. My speech
has improved alot - being at university and being surrounded by hearing
friends all the time has really helped me though I do still need to
work on the loudness of my speech and of course try and say all these
biology words properly. Everytime I do a presentation and when I
present it sometimes there a word that I struggle to say and sometimes
I tend to stutter and give up quite easily and just say "that word" all
my mates just laughs, which I don't mind becuase they all understand
and my lecture is ok with it and it doesn't effect my marks which is a
releif. I don't sign as much anymore so I think that maybe another
reason why my speech as improved alot too.
I have added a few pictures of me on the mike and of course you may
notice the rudolph on my coil that I created - everyone loves it and
have asked me to make some for them. It was a brilliant weekend and It
was nice to have Kezia from AB popping in to see us all.
I suppose some of you have noticed my last post "stolen bike" Still no
news on that but is feeling positive that I will get it back. However
ometime next year I'll be having a knee operation (sports injury)
which I hope, the recovery time doesn't take to long - I don't fancy
having another year out of sport like I did with my ankle and is
hop-ing around everywhere in university on those horrible crutches.
Now Xmas is coming up, I'll be spending my xmas hoilday down in
Scarbrough along with the rest of my family and of course go to the
church and see If I can keep up with the Xmas song and this year do
better at following the lyrics.
So thats it for me now, finally the weekend here and I am off out to
ee a few friends and enjoy spending sometime with my family and maybe
to a bit of online xmas shopping If I have time rather than going out
in the cold spending ages searching to buy a certain thing.
Enjoy the Xmas season everyone.
Posted by Katie-Louise's blog at 20:49 19 comments: Links to this post
Thursday, 3 December 2009
Styling Your Cochlear Implant (Getting Ready for Xmas)
Hey all,
Getting ready for Xmas?? I can't believe Xmas is just round the corner.
Anyway, today I went to town today to finish off the last bit of Xmas
hopping. Finally I got it all done and now I've gotta do the last
part; wrapping them all up - I think I'd end up wrapping myself up
ince I'm not good at it.
Anyway while I went round town. I saw some Reindeers hair clips - I
thought they look so cute then as I looked at them I came up with an
idea - lets pimp out my processor into an christmassy Cochlear Implant.
I knew I had a party to go to this weekend, so I thought, why not I'll
just buy it and when I get home I'll see what I can do with them.
So, instead of wrapping up the xmas present - I decided to turn the
reindeer hair clip into a reindeer coil cover. check it out
It is quite simple to make. All I did was buy the clips that has an
xmas charactor on then cut down the clip where there is a small peice
of metal left on the back of the reindeer, file the edges so it isn't
harp to either scratch or cut something and then just stick it on your
magnetic coil. So after making it, heres the result.........
Now have fun and you try it.
Please Note that this does not damage your processor!
Merry Xmas everyone,
katie-louise
Posted by Katie-Louise's blog at 19:35 4 comments: Links to this post
Thursday, 26 November 2009
Stolen Motobike!
Note *This is not a CI related*
Last night I had my motocross bike stolen. Thoses that lives in the
Derby Are, Please help and spread the word to try and find my bike!
STOLEN KAWASAKI KX125 (Team Green with Gold petrol cap and black pannels with
the number "7" ) Stolen in Chaddesden Area (Derby) between 7:30 - 9:30pm
If anyone seen it please call crime number; 0345 123 33 33 or 07852157548.
Please help and spread the word!
Posted by Katie-Louise's blog at 12:53 4 comments: Links to this post
Wednesday, 18 November 2009
Questions and Unusual Coil Picture!
Afternoon all,
I just like to say sorry to thoses that has sent me an e-mail with your
question about the cochlear implants in the past month or so and hasn't
yet had a reply from me. I've been ever so busy at university working
on a project and also had other things to do.
o, I'll try and answer you question as soon as I am free.
Anyway, thought I'd share this with you - I wouldn't say its a good
thing, but everyone who has had a cochlear implant has bound to had
omething stuck on their coil by accident or someone would put it on,
on purpose.
One night I was out at a friend house a few months ago and they decided
to put a WKD bottle top on my coil -which made my coil stand out which
to us WKD means WICKED to us! Enjoy the picture....
Anyway, i'd better be off - hope you all like the picture. I'll be
updating my blog sometimes over the next few days on what I've been up
to over past month. So, watch this space!
Posted by Katie-Louise's blog at 14:34 11 comments: Links to this post
Wednesday, 21 October 2009
Playing sports with your C.I
Over the past few weeks, I have seen people asking about how do I wear
my C.I while playing any sports !
Lets start with managing C.I - I do have small ears, and everyday I
wear a small 'Huggie that attaches to my C.I which looks like this:
Wearing a 'Huggie' with my C.I has made a big different to me. Even
though I had a smaller T-mic, the implant would still fly off. So,
wearing a 'Huggie' with your implant to wrap round your ears should
help you
Not only I wear a huggie while playing sports. With my huggie, I tend
to wear a small sports material elastic band instead of those big
headband. I place the band over my head by but putting the coil wire
underneath. That also stops the implant from falling off and of course
the coil doesn't come off as much as it used to. Placing the handband
on top the coil wire doesn't affect the sounds coming through to your
ears. I found that big material head bands tend to make a lot of
rustling noise and it still made the implant falls off.
I wear the band in all the sports I play all sort of sports such as
football, tennis, running, gym etc. I would recommend it to other C.I
users that are playing sports to wear it.
Recently Advanced Bionics has been testing the new T-mic ear mould
(pictured below) This can be another way to prevent your cochlear
implant from falling off.
Sometimes while playing sports, you don't always hear the whistle even
if your wearing your implant, as you too busy focusing on the game.
There has been times where I was playing football and I had the ball,
continued to run and the referee would blow his whistle and I am still
running with it.
So, what should I do to prevent this?
To help me from knowing when to stop, or when its a foul. I ask my
referee to hold up a flag which he hold throughout the match. Every
time he blows the whistle he would raise the flag up in the air too.;
that helps me a lot. Sometimes when they are behind you and you don't
hear the whistle or hear the flag you would still continue to run. This
problem, I manage to solve with my team mates. I teaching my team some
deaf awareness and ask them, if I had the ball and the referee blows
his whistle, all my team mates would stop and stand still. That way, I
can see why the game has been stopped because no-one moving around.
playing as a team, you get players shouting my out my name when they
want the ball, then when I don't hear it, it goes someone else. After I
had problems with this situation. I taught my team mates to wave at me
as they are shouting my name which made the teamwork much better.
I There are loads of issue out there that can be dealt with. if you
have any question about this post. e-mail me, hopefully I'll get back
to you
katie-louise x.
Posted by Katie-Louise's blog at 09:13 9 comments: Links to this post
Tuesday, 13 October 2009
C.I actor wanted!
My mum has found this , great to know that they are looking to get an
actor with a Cochlear Implant!
BBC searches for CI recipient to play lead role in new drama
The BBC is looking to cast an aspiring deaf (or hearing impaired)
actress in the lead female role of new drama, The Silence.
The girl should be aged around 16 to 19 and does not have to have had
acting experience, but should have a lively and outgoing personality
and be up for the challenge of working with a film crew and
professional actors in Dublin.
In the drama, the character has a cochlear implant and is learning to
talk, so the girl should ideally have some speech.
Shooting will take place from mid November to early January 2010. There
will be a break for Christmas and New Year.
The production is being made for BBC One by Company Pictures, who
produce Skins and Shameless. It will be directed by Dearbhla Walsh, who
has just won the Emmy Award for Little Dorritt.
If you or anyone you know would be interested in being seen for this
project please get in touch with us, and we'll forward you everything
you need to know! Email us at hello@thedeafblog.co.uk.
Posted by Katie-Louise's blog at 12:41 1 comment: Links to this post
Monday, 31 August 2009
Summer Almost Over
Can't you believe it that ten weeks of summer is almost over. I have
just two week left before going back to university! uh-oh!
I am looking forward to see all my uni friends again; missed them so
much. I am certaintly not looking forward to the amount of work to be
done in my 2nd year (lets hope it easy)
I'd a great summer so far, I've done soo much and have been sooooo
busy! I spend the summer working and had at least 2 weeks hoilday.
I did alot of football coaching over the summer with young children and
then spend a few weeks at a Deaf camp doing all sorts such as canoning,
climbing, treking, cycling, swimming, visiting places etc. I have
enjoyed it some much. Being a team leader gives you loads of
responsibility and you can learn some much, looking forward to doing
that again next year, but at a different place - I think next year I
would be doing that in USA
Not only I have been working. Advanced Bionics/Manchester cochlear
implant centre have asked me to join the football teens day that they
had in manchester. Good time, it was great to meet the young teenagers
that had C.I and also enjoys football too.I had a bit of a kick around
with them and then visited Manchester City Stadium. Learnt so much
about Man City!
Also, I was invited to a sports award and repesented Derby County for
the 2nd time.
2 weeks of hoilday at Golden Sands with family and friends was awsome -
It was nice to relax on the beach and enjoy the sunshine - the night
entertainment was great too. Thanks to my implant, I am able to
understand it more than I used to. I did have an accident with my
implant - lost 2 batteries which fall out of Richard bag which had a
hole in. Another call to the implant centre, grr.
There was one night were the was a party in the dark, so we all had
these light things. I ended up putting one light on my coil - check out
the picture!
Now I have only 2 weeks left, I have a few plans. I'll be visiting
Advanced Bionics for a small meeting twice this month - and I'll be
orting out my university books (I really do want another 10 weeks off)
and erm.... Get my self back at the gym, had 2 months off and I've
missed my gym routine. I love the workout and swimming. Football season
has just started so back in the game again!
Thats it for me now, check out the next post on how well I am doing
with my ears
Posted by Katie-Louise's blog at 09:57 No comments: Links to this post
Newer Posts Older Posts Home
Subscribe to: Posts (Atom)
Click to Visit Advanced Bionics
"A life with "AB" is just amazing! Without this device, I don't think I
would be where I am now! " Click on the logo to find out more about
Advanced Bionic!"
Blog Archive
Katie-Louise Tips
Bloggers
laura's medical journey
merry christmas 2015
2 weeks ago
Cochlear Kids
11 Years of Hearing
3 months ago
Sound of Cochlear Implant
7 months ago
Turn On My Ears!
Progress Report - 2nd Grade
10 months ago
Hear the Sound
Whoops the Loop!
1 year ago
Anna's Sound Journey by Freedom Cochlear Implant
2nd day with N6 - in London
2 years ago
Loudest House on the Block
We were challenged today at our teacher's inservice to put
ourselves out there and WRITE.....
Sarah's Cochlear Implant
Trialling a Neptune
SURROUND SOUND
Vanderbilt Image-Guided Mapping Test Results
Laurie's Dance with Sound
HLAA July/August 2012 Magazine Cover
3 years ago
My Son Tom
Milo
Debs' Hearing Journey
Telephone
4 years ago
Gina Sprenkel - My New Life of Hearing
I'm a Saladaholic
Silent Sail
Happy New yEar
5 years ago
Subtitles wedding photography
Phone and Music with CI nearly 2years on
Kirsty's Cochlear Implant
NOT HEARING VERY WELL
CI Borg
Some Updates
Bionic Wombat - Bilateral cochlear recipient
July 2010
Amanda's Cochlear Implant Journey
Amanda update-March 10, 2010
Kate's Cochlear Implant
My final post? 7 months on
CHRONICLES OF A BIONIC WOMAN
Free Neckloop From Clarity If Attending HLAA Convention
6 years ago
deafgirllovessoaps
Today's Appointment
The journey of Claire's cochlear implant
3-monthly tune up
Dawne's CI Journey
Wow
7 years ago
the DeafBlog
Followers
Blog-Network
NetworkedBlogs
Blog:
Katie's Cochlear Implant Journey
Topics:
CI, BSL, Disability
Join my network
Number of Visitors
click for free hit counter code
html hit counter
Advice/Support From Experience Cochlear Implant users
Click the logo to find out more!
I was implanted in April '08. I have written about my experiences from
times to implantation to the present day. This would be a useful
resource for anybody who has been recently implanted or is going
through the assessements. I suggest you to look back at the blogpost in
April to the present date
There are useful Links to other bloggers or CI related are shown at the
bottom of this page!
If you have any question?
E-mail me bionic-katie@live.co.uk
or Join Advanced Bionics UK facebook group ; click here
Find me on Facebook!
Katie-louise Bailey's Facebook Profile
Top 15 Blog Award
Top Cochlear Implants Blog
A New Year 2009 Counter To See Where My Visitors are From?
free counters
Subscribe me
[arrow_dropdown.gif] Posts
[subscribe-netvibes.png] [subscribe-yahoo.png] [icon_feed12.png] Atom
[arrow_dropdown.gif] All Comments
Click the picture to enter their site!
Katie's C.I Centre
My Videos
Loading...
Myself & My Team In Russia
Richard & Me
Me and My Idol (Gareth Gates)
Useful Cochlear Implants websites
Me and the squad in Germany
Picture Window template. Powered by Blogger.
