Implant Blog - RSS

Katie-Louise's Cochlear Implant Blog
A Positive Journey with an Advanced Bionics Cochlear Implant!
Thursday, 23 July 2009
Talking in Groups
Being in a group chats has always been hard for a deaf person. Lip
reading one person to another person is like watching table-tennis
following the ball and If you lost where the ball is, then you have
just missed out on some information. Before I got implanted with this
wonderful Advanced Bionic device, it was so hard to keep up . when I
were in a group of hearing peers I used to lip-read all the time but
always miss out some information and when I get tired of lipreading I
miss more information. I used to hate sitting in groups and would
prefer to talk to a friend 1-1. Sitting in groups, my confident wasn't
to repeat.
After having a cochlear implant, lip-reading has become alot easisr! I
don't get tired so quick and I do get more involved. There are times
where I don't understand what they are saying but I do have to say that
I am much more confident asking them to repeat, I ain't afriad to ask.
The only thing I find hard at the moment is university there is a
tudent union bar where you sit and chill out with friends. The student
union seats & tables are like a "C" shapes and when go with my group of
friends to sit round thoses table. I've notices that everytime I s it
in the middle - I always hear and keep up with the people on my
implanted side and tend to miss some information on my non-implant
ide. I do try and make sure I sit on the edge, making sure all my
friends are on my implant side. It does help, but still not all places
have "C" shapes seating. They can be round and that makes it worst when
there is no edges to make sure everyone sits where your implanted side
is.
Maybe a 2nd implant would help in that situation? Has anyone out there
notices the different in group situation after getting your 2nd CI
done? It would be great if you could share your experince!
Posted by Katie-Louise's blog at 17:07 6 comments: Links to this post
Labels: advanced bionic contact network
Wednesday, 22 July 2009
Total Wipeout Gameshow!
Ever heard of a Gameshow that on every Satuday evening on BBC ONE?
its involved: Crashes, smashes and hilarious mud splashes are on the
cards as twenty contestants take on one of television's largest and
most extreme obstacle courses. They journey across the globe to the
purpose-built Total Wipeout course in Argentina to put their strength,
balance and bravery to the test in the hope of winning the 10,000
pounds cash prize and being crowned this week's Total Wipeout champion.
I have never really watched it and my dad always wanted to me to try
and get on the show. He said he always like to see a deaf person on the
how to raise the awareness that "deaf people can do anything except
hear" He'd downloaded the application form the other day. He asked me
to go for it, and so I did. I can't believe I actually posted the form
off, am I mad?
I am an outgoing person and always up for a challenge. So, I thought
why not and give it go. After watching a bit of the show on Youtube. I
thought If I ever did do the show - it would be good to tell people
what a cochlear implant is. It could make Advanced Bionic more visable
and maybe more people would be aware on a cochlear implant is.
Another question my dad ask me. If I ever won 10,000 pound, what would
I spend it on? I said I would pay to have a second cochlear implant
done and my dad was just shocked and couldn't believe I would choose to
have that done instead of something esle like a new car or something.
Having a second implant would mean alot to me. Waiting till the N.I.C.E
report change in 2011 is a long time to wait and it could take forever
to appeal against it. So, it worth a try. If I fail to make it the
gameshow there always another way round to it. Better luck for me!
Posted by Katie-Louise's blog at 19:07 3 comments: Links to this post
Labels: total wipeout Advanced bionic
Where to get support and advice?
Looking for advice and support to help you with decision to get a
cochlear implant or not? How about checking these useful sites;
Advanced Bionic (the name of my cochlear implant)
Contact Network
Ear Foundation
Cochlear Implant User Group
British Cochlear
Posted by Katie-Louise's blog at 10:16 No comments: Links to this post
Sunday, 19 July 2009
Contact Network!
Last weekend, I travelled all the way down to Cambridge to join the
Contact Network group. Friday evening they had a social meet up with a
BBQ. I have never really met any of the contact network group before
apart from Tiz who I have met at the EF and the two other AB users who
I have met during my assessment at the Ear foudation to help me decide
wheather I wanted a cochlear implant or not. Oh and there was Elaine
from CIUG who I have spoken to loads of time asking her tons of
question about the implant. I didn't realise they would be there
When I got to the Mellor Centre, I signed in and went to my bedroom and
dropped my bags off. The time we got in our room, it was almost time to
join the crew. Richard and I were walking towards the study centre,
well we were trying to find the place and as we got near the building,
there was a lady walking by waving at me saying "Hi katie-louise" I
were like, erm... "Hi" (I didn't have a clue who she was) Untill I got
close and I realise after she told me who she was. Michelee has been
reading my blogs and so thats how she knew me. (It was great to meet
you Michelle) We both walked up to the study centre along with my
partner Richard who were also with us for the weekend. As soon as we
got into the study centre, Tiz was already by the door way - so, that
was alright for me, as there was someone esle already knew - Tiz took
control and introduce me to his boss (nice to meet you boss :-) After I
got a drink, I spotted my great old audiologist that did my assessment
to get a cochlear implant and who has left me for her new job just
before my switch on, but hey at least shes working for the 'RIGHT'
company, it was great to catch up with kezia again. (hopefully see you
again sometimes)
The room was full other AB users. I managed to get chance to talk to
most of them. they all seem nice and it was great to know all of their
experince too. we also had a good game on the Wii, playing against to
the other AB users was so much fun. While we were eating up our dinner,
Tiz join us and was asking if kezia has told me something. Kezia and
Yvoone soon jumped in quick and told Tiz to shush. They had something
exciting to tell us the next morning. I kinda guess what it was, so
thanks tiz for the hint :-P They all know how crazy I am with the
colours on my implant and what I did to one of the cover (yes, spraying
it pink) Thats me and I love to stay in fashion, not just with clothes,
but with my implant too.
The next morning, I was ment to go for a run, but after seening the
meeting was gonna be from 9ish till 4. I thought I better not and take
the weekend off. Sunday morning, I did actually went out and did the
extra hour run to make up from what I lost.
Breakfast was nice, so there were more time for us users to enjoy
chatting awaying. Finally after breakfast it was time to join the group
for a meeting. The people who worked for AB/contact network had lot of
presentation to show us - its was all about the history, achievements,
future of AB and many more. I thought it was so interesting. I have
learnt so much, and still I can't believe how much I didn't know even
though I had the cochlear implant for a year and there is still so much
more to learn. I was actually impressed with the future equipments for
the processor etc - next on my list I want a pink, hehe :-) and also
other things they have such as the new T-mic earmould that we're going
to try out. Poor kezia haven't done made and ear mould for over 10
months, but she has done so well - It was a good job I learnt how to
lip-read, so I could keep up with what the others were talking about
while my implant were off. After having the ear mould made, I also made
a bouncing ball with the left overs lol. I actually gave that to
Nicolas, who is stopping at my families home to play with. The music
ession was also interesting. I am not really into music that much. I
only know a bit of Duffy and The Saturdays because I quite like the
beats they played and my sister helped me with the lyrics etc.
The CD software they have and what they showed us seems to be so
interesting. She played a few tracks to see if we could guess them and
we had to imagine whats happening during that sounds. I thought that
was really userful so I am gonna give that a try and then make a post
on what I think about it. (watch out for the next post)
In the meeting room, they had a quite a few instruments out, so, myself
and the other AB users decided to play with them and make some sounds.
Some of thoses instruments I have never heard before. Some sounded good
and some were awful. we had fun with them though. We made sooo much
racket and I felt sorry for kezia, tiz and the others - I bet we were
getting on their nerves. They must be so glad when we had stopped
playing them lol.
The Future of AB - justs gets better! I am impress on what they are
working on! I am looking forward to help more, and go to more of there
meetings! A big thanks for the AB crew - Hopefully see you all again so
oon!
Posted by Katie-Louise's blog at 15:19 2 comments: Links to this post
Saturday, 18 July 2009
Using The Phone!
Using a phone can be difficult for some C.I users. Some can learn quite
quickly, some take a while. But for me, I am still not 100% confident
and yes, it has only been a year since I've been implanted.
It could take some users months or even years till they could get
better, it does take practice. Without practice you probably wouldn't
reach the next level unless you've tried. Every users is different, you
can't compare yourself with another C.I users. - its all to do with you
history of deafness, or sound menmory! Just because you know someone
who had the implant around the same time as you, or maybe a few months
later and can use the phone quite well, it doesn't mean they are better
than you, a nd your not going to get to that stage. The whole idea of
the rehab process is to practise and not to give up.
I once tried calling my granddad at Christmas for the first time and at
the time I have only had my implant for six months.. I didn't actually
hear him very well or understood him perfectly. My mum stood next to
the phone and all I could hear is like a foreigner is talking to me and
you don't understand the language. When I first heard voices, that was
also like that too. After trying with my grandad at christmas, and it
wasn't too successful, it didn't stop me from practicing. I decided to
try something differet instead such as doing more listening practice
without lip-reading. Doing something different does give me a chance to
improve my listening skills to listen without lip-reading.
My lipreading skills were so good before being imlpanted. And thats one
of the good thing about being able to lip-read was it able to make
things a little bit easier by reading their lips and remenbering how
does that word sound ready for next time I should be able to hear that
word without lip-reading. I do practice alot with my mum and sometimes
he ask if I would like to try again on the phone. At some point I do
make some excuses saying nah - I'm off out, which I do have to admit
that I just weren't ready and wasn't confident enough to try it. My mum
were ok with it - my mum is the sort of person who likes to try and
help and also try to encourage you to practice more. That is a good
thing about having someone round to help you. I mean, without the
upport I got, I wouldn't think I would get this far to be able to hear
ome speech without lip-reading.
Just only a few weeks ago, I were away from home working, coaching
young children and to hear from my parent, I would just text them too
ee how they are. While I were away, I did miss my mum's voice. From
where I was staying, it would take ages for me to drive back home and
pop in to say hello. So, in the end I sat in my room picked up the
phone, thinking to myself should I ring my mum or not. I was getting
all these 'What If I can't hear her' in my head. In the end, I thought,
I ain't gonna know if I can do it unless I have tried! I decided to
dail that number and just ring it....
Finally I could hear the ringing tone and at that moment I knew that
anytime now she would picked up and say "hello". When I heard that
hello, it was just so emotional. I do mis s her voice while being away
from home. During that phone call I had with my mum, my mum spoke to me
like she normally does to me when we are face to face. At a normal
pace, not to slow or to fast. I was able to pick out the main key words
on what she were saying. There were a few time where she had to repeat
her self untill I understood what is being said. I were so happy that I
was able to hear her voice and yes when I got home, my dad did say she
were in tears. My mum was so happy that I have given it a try. After
this phone call, even though I still need some practice. I have now
decided to try it more often and like others have said, without practce
you won't get far.
So, hopefully this time next year, who knows, I could be talking to a
few more people, or maybe still working on it. No matter what stages
you are at, you just need to practice. So, for thoses of you who are
new to using the phone with your C.I. Don't give up, it does take time!
Posted by Katie-Louise's blog at 21:09 3 comments: Links to this post
Friday, 10 July 2009
Ear Foundation BBQ
Last weekend, there was a big Ear Foundation BBQ held at Sue and Brains
house. Sue's garden were filled with stalls, bouncy castles for the
kids and plenty of competitions to take part in.
The event went so well, the weather was so nice and it was great to
meet even more people with Cochlear Implant! It is nice to see more and
more implant users around my age and to share each of our experience!
So, I would like to say a BIG thanks to Sue and the Ear foundation crew
for organizing it!
The Ear foundation is like my second family - they're always so
upportive and they have helped me with a load of things! I look
forward to attend more of your events. If you need any advise or any
upport with anything to do with Cochlear Implant I would recommend you
all to check out there site on www.earfoundation.org
The Ear Foundation is now on facebook, why not sign up and be a member
- you'll recieve all the latest news and make new friends online.
Anyway, thats it for me. This week I'll be chilling out seening friends
catching up with what I have missed and new week I'll be driving up to
cambridage to join the Advanced Bionic Contact Network meeting. So,
looking forward to meeting new people there!
Posted by Katie-Louise's blog at 14:37 18 comments: Links to this post
Labels: advanced bionic, contact networks, Ear Foundation
Thursday, 25 June 2009
Exam's Are Over!
Yahoooo! Finally It's the start of summer! No more University, waking
up early and of course NO more homework!
Over the past few weeks I've been so busy and not been able to post up
a blog because I was to busy making sure all my assignments are
up-to-date and I spent alot of my time revising ready for my exams.
Well, exam's are finally over! This year was the first time I ever done
an exam with my implant. Every year, the lecture always tell everyone
to sit quietly at their desk, no talking and to fill in all the
question sheet. For a deaf person, who couldn't hear a thing have no
idea how noisey they are. I remenbered last year, I sat down and when I
finished my question sheet I left my desk with a big loud screeching
noise which was coming from my chair, everyone did turned and looked at
me! How embarrasing
This year has been totoally different! Thanks to my implant, I was able
to hear myself and was able to BE quiet. In the exam room, everything
was ment to be so quiet, everyone WAS quiet but just one thing that
wasn't and it did distracted me right through the exam. I wanted to
hoot it! It was sooooooo ANNOYING! Eventually I did had to take my
implant so I could get some peace and concentrate! Can anyone guess
what it is?
Yep, it was a clock, how noise can they be? can't they be any quieter?
Big Ben in London is so loud, but it on chime when the big hand gets to
12'0clock but this small clock in the exam room TICKs loud every
econd! Ah, right now, I'm just trying to learn to IGNORE the sounds!
Any tips on how to avoid listening to sounds that I don't want to hear?
Posted by Katie-Louise's blog at 13:23 14 comments: Links to this post
Newer Posts Older Posts Home
Subscribe to: Posts (Atom)
Click to Visit Advanced Bionics
"A life with "AB" is just amazing! Without this device, I don't think I
would be where I am now! " Click on the logo to find out more about
Advanced Bionic!"
Blog Archive
Katie-Louise Tips
Bloggers
laura's medical journey
merry christmas 2015
2 weeks ago
Cochlear Kids
11 Years of Hearing
3 months ago
Sound of Cochlear Implant
7 months ago
Turn On My Ears!
Progress Report - 2nd Grade
10 months ago
Hear the Sound
Whoops the Loop!
1 year ago
Anna's Sound Journey by Freedom Cochlear Implant
2nd day with N6 - in London
2 years ago
Loudest House on the Block
We were challenged today at our teacher's inservice to put
ourselves out there and WRITE.....
Sarah's Cochlear Implant
Trialling a Neptune
SURROUND SOUND
Vanderbilt Image-Guided Mapping Test Results
Laurie's Dance with Sound
HLAA July/August 2012 Magazine Cover
3 years ago
My Son Tom
Milo
Debs' Hearing Journey
Telephone
4 years ago
Gina Sprenkel - My New Life of Hearing
I'm a Saladaholic
Silent Sail
Happy New yEar
5 years ago
Subtitles wedding photography
Phone and Music with CI nearly 2years on
Kirsty's Cochlear Implant
NOT HEARING VERY WELL
CI Borg
Some Updates
Bionic Wombat - Bilateral cochlear recipient
July 2010
Amanda's Cochlear Implant Journey
Amanda update-March 10, 2010
Kate's Cochlear Implant
My final post? 7 months on
CHRONICLES OF A BIONIC WOMAN
Free Neckloop From Clarity If Attending HLAA Convention
6 years ago
deafgirllovessoaps
Today's Appointment
The journey of Claire's cochlear implant
3-monthly tune up
Dawne's CI Journey
Wow
7 years ago
the DeafBlog
Followers
Blog-Network
NetworkedBlogs
Blog:
Katie's Cochlear Implant Journey
Topics:
CI, BSL, Disability
Join my network
Number of Visitors
click for free hit counter code
html hit counter
Advice/Support From Experience Cochlear Implant users
Click the logo to find out more!
I was implanted in April '08. I have written about my experiences from
times to implantation to the present day. This would be a useful
resource for anybody who has been recently implanted or is going
through the assessements. I suggest you to look back at the blogpost in
April to the present date
There are useful Links to other bloggers or CI related are shown at the
bottom of this page!
If you have any question?
E-mail me bionic-katie@live.co.uk
or Join Advanced Bionics UK facebook group ; click here
Find me on Facebook!
Katie-louise Bailey's Facebook Profile
Top 15 Blog Award
Top Cochlear Implants Blog
A New Year 2009 Counter To See Where My Visitors are From?
free counters
Subscribe me
[arrow_dropdown.gif] Posts
[subscribe-netvibes.png] [subscribe-yahoo.png] [icon_feed12.png] Atom
[arrow_dropdown.gif] All Comments
Click the picture to enter their site!
Katie's C.I Centre
My Videos
Loading...
Myself & My Team In Russia
Richard & Me
Me and My Idol (Gareth Gates)
Useful Cochlear Implants websites
Me and the squad in Germany
Picture Window template. Powered by Blogger.
