Implant Blog - RSS

Katie-Louise's Cochlear Implant Blog
A Positive Journey with an Advanced Bionics Cochlear Implant!
Monday, 11 May 2009
Wow, take a look at this!
Kirsty, a friend who lives about 45 minutes away had has her cochlear
implant for nearly 6 months now.
She was born deaf and had wore hearing aids until April 2007 when she
had lost all her hearing in both ears. She is very musical and after
losing her hearing, she felt so sad to not able to hear her favourtire
band, ABBA.
After Kirsty contacted me online, she had ask me loads of quesiton
about my experince and how the implant has helped me. We met once
before her op and I could see how hard it is for her. Kirsty, then
decided to go for an Advanced Bionic cochlear implant in Novemenber
2008 and after visiting her on the day she had the op, she was so brave
he went ahead with it despites being very nervous and nearly turn it
down. 3 months after the operation, I visited her again - Kirsty has
changed and improved alot after the operation, she even listening to
her favourites songs on the Ipod and I can't believe how quickly she
has learn to hear .... she is even now playing on her piano, check this
out. playing 'Abba - Mama Mia' When I watched her playing that, I was
like, wow - she really is good!
[EMBED] video
Kirsty playing mamma mia and myself watching her.
Posted by Katie-Louise's blog at 13:54 4 comments: Links to this post
Who is right?
Last weekend, Richard (freedom user) and I were sitting in the
conservatory relaxing and talking about anything that stops us from
getting bored. All the sudden Richard heard an Aeroplane and asked me I
I could hear that. I heard it, but it sounded like a Helicopter.
We were both were disagreeing with each other about what we heard. I
was telling him, "no its a helicopter" and he was "no its a plane"
which went on and on, in the end we both decided to go outside to find
out what it really was and see who was right. And guess what - we were
both shocked - we saw both a helicopter and an aeroplane and we were
just shocked that neither of us were wrong. It’s weird how we both
could hear something but a different thing. So, that was our weirdest
moment.
Posted by Katie-Louise's blog at 13:36 1 comment: Links to this post
Friday, 1 May 2009
This is real, this is sound!
Hey all,
Hasn't it been a while since i have last posted? I did get lost, but
here I am now - I just had a busy month - and a busy week!
Next thurs, I'll be going for my one year C.I review. Can you believe
how quick this year has gone! It makes me feel old already!
Anyway, I thought i'll share this. Have you all ever heard of camp
rock? well, its a film I watch a few weeks ago. I know its for teens
but still I am a big kid and would watch anything that is good.
There Camp rock has a song called "this is real, this is me" and I
really liked the song. So, one day I got that bored after spending a
week off uni being ill . I decided to see if could change the song that
is CI related.
Here it is: tell me what you think?
Living in a silent world
Didn’tunderstand
Do you know what is like
Not to hear a sound
I have this thing
right inside of me
I’m gonna let it show, it’s time
To let you know
To let you know...
This is real, this is sound
That is how I’m supposed to hear now
that the device, is how I hear
Now I’ve found, how I hear
There's no way to hold it in
No more hiding what I wear
This is me
To dream about a life
with all the sound you got
Even though it seems,
like it's too far away
without that device
I don’t know what you hear
It’s the only way.....
You're the voice I hear inside my head
The reason how I’m hear
I need to wear it
I gotta wear it
You're the missing piece i need
to put sound inside of me
(You're the missing piece i need to put sound inside me)
This is me, Yeah
(You're the voice i hear inside my head, the reason how I hear)
There’s no way to hold it in
anyway, let me know what you all think. After doing this. This makes me
thing there should be a music video out there that should increase
cochlear implant awareness, there are still lot of people out there
that doesn't know what a cochlear implant is.
that is it for me, watch out for next weeks post with the BIG 1 year
results!
katie -louise x
Posted by Katie-Louise's blog at 20:19 5 comments: Links to this post
Wednesday, 25 March 2009
2nd implant?
10 months and I am doing so well, I still can't get over of what I have
learnt over the past 10 months -Everyday there always a new sound and
always more to look forward to
There is only one thing now I really would like , which I have been
thinking about in the last few weeks, now that I have done so well
listening through one implant, will I do the same if I had a second
implant?
A second implant would be nice. I mean, I hear so well in my left but
the only thing is I can only hear most of the things on the left and my
right side just feels SO deaf and doesn't hear anything, it feels so
blank; I don't see the point in wearing a hearing aid I know a 2nd
implant won't make you hear any better, but it be nice to hear from
both direction and maybe it give me a better sense of where sounds
comin from.
So, now I am hoping to have a 2nd implant to become 'Bilateral' becuase
of the N.I.C.E guidance, I think here in the UK, it would be hard for
us to fight for the second one. So, right now I am unsure which
direction I should take, wheather I should wait a while untill the
N.I.C.E has changed gardians or should I appeal for the funding right
now?
I thought, If I was to have a 2nd implant while I am still at early
tages, I think it might be better as my brains will continue to learn
, I am not saying it will stop (I hope not) but getting another implant
at this stage might be easier for me and gives me time to learn before
I finish university and go out in the real world and teach.
thats it for me, fingers cross, I get the 2nd one some day!
x
Posted by Katie-Louise's blog at 18:54 9 comments: Links to this post
Music - Sounds Inspiring
Yesterday I had an interesting evening. I went to the sound inspiring
event which was organised by Ear Foundation and Advanced Bionic. (the
implant brand I have)
The event went so well, and it was concert by musicians who have
ensory and it inspired me so much. I have never seen a deaf blind man
who is able to play his piano and guitar and also group of deaf
teenager having there own band called the Deafness. which totally
amazed me, it really does show a good example to others the deaf people
can do anything except hear like hearing people do.
I have learnt so much while I were watching the panio, flute, drums
guitar and xlepone. It was all new to me. I never to identify
instrument and the different in them. . After tonight. I have able to
indentify the low and high pitch and also to tell which instrument was
playing.
I did find some hard to listen to and when they were all playing at the
ame time. when the flute were playing I was unable to hear the piano
untill the flute has paused.
I weren't too keen on the flute. I mean, the flute was played at a high
pitch and each note gets higher and higer which felt like my implant is
about to blew off.
It was nice to take part when we all got these free Advanced Bionic
drumsticks. That taught us to listen and to try and follow the patten
Not only there were music, there were dancers aswell, one of the
dancers had a good sense of humour while dancing which made us laughed
So, now I decided I do want to take some keyboard lesson - I won't be
as good as the people I have seen, but it be nice to be able to play a
ong - maybe get to learn how to play Gareth Gates, :-)
o, what an evening, hopefully there will be some more like that!
Posted by Katie-Louise's blog at 18:32 No comments: Links to this post
Thursday, 5 March 2009
Hearing from Distance!
March already? Its nowbeen nearly 10 months since I have been
implanted. I can't believe how quick the year has gone; I guess life
would be alot faster if your enjoying the new hearing journey.
In may will be my one year anniversary. So, I am looking forward to
celebrate my one year journey by posting up a new video on this blog <-
Anyway. I have noticed that I have been hearing alot of things that is
quite a distance away.
Yesterday, In university I was in class and my classroom was right on
the very top floor (11th floor) I were sitting right near the window
because sometimes I like to see the outside when I'm thinking or when I
want to be nosey ;-) while my lecture were talking about 'Shakespear' I
heard a beeping sound that was very quiet and it was repeating for some
time. The sound distracted me from listening and I ended up looking
around to see what it was and still couldn't figure out where it was
coming from. So, I asked my mate whats that beeping sound. She said it
was a truck that was reversing outside as there were some building work
going off outside the University. I was amazed on how I could hear
that.
Also, now I am an aunty, I have been babysitting my little nephew who
is now 6 weeks old (he growing quick) anyway, while babysitting. I
asked Richard to keep an eye on him while I'll go a make a bottle and I
then quickly go upstairs to fetch his bibs etc. I could hear him crying
from a good distance away. Babies are loud when they cry. Sometimes it
is nice to switch your implant off when you don't want to hear him.
I remenber 3 month post activation, I was able to turn round if someone
calls my name out only if they were close but now I can do it while
they are in another room. I do sometimes get confused at home when my
mum shouts "lady" my dog which made me think my mum is shouting "katie"
Thats it for me typing away now. I better shoot off to my 2nd lecture.
xx
Posted by Katie-Louise's blog at 12:04 15 comments: Links to this post
Tuesday, 17 February 2009
RAM FM! (radio) new CI moment!
Hey,
I'm still around, and yes, I haven't posted for a short while; doesn't
mean I've forgotten about my blogs.
I've been soo busy helping my sister with her little son, dylan (hes
growing quick) and of course studying at uni <- these assignments from
university really do take up all your free time. Anyway, recently I
have been travelling to a few places with family and friends - while
traveling, someone in the car always shouts "put the radio on" so,
while driving I decided to put the radio on. I don't normally listen to
the radio and not to bothered with it. Well, for some reason, I decided
to give myself some listening practise rather than ignoring it. becuase
my hometown football team were playing, my brother and dad want to
listen to it to see how well they are getting on. I know all the Derby
players names and decided to see if I could pick out any of there names
that been called out. I did great and manage to pick out a few names
which put a smile on my face, not only that I heard the man on the
radio saying "102.8 Ram FM" <>
o, thats something new and hopefully, i'll continue with the practise
and see what esle can I hear!
thats it for me now, i better shoot off and get some training done,
what this space for more updates!
take care x
Posted by Katie-Louise's blog at 14:41 1 comment: Links to this post
Newer Posts Older Posts Home
Subscribe to: Posts (Atom)
Click to Visit Advanced Bionics
"A life with "AB" is just amazing! Without this device, I don't think I
would be where I am now! " Click on the logo to find out more about
Advanced Bionic!"
Blog Archive
Katie-Louise Tips
Bloggers
laura's medical journey
merry christmas 2015
2 weeks ago
Cochlear Kids
11 Years of Hearing
3 months ago
Sound of Cochlear Implant
7 months ago
Turn On My Ears!
Progress Report - 2nd Grade
10 months ago
Hear the Sound
Whoops the Loop!
1 year ago
Anna's Sound Journey by Freedom Cochlear Implant
2nd day with N6 - in London
2 years ago
Loudest House on the Block
We were challenged today at our teacher's inservice to put
ourselves out there and WRITE.....
Sarah's Cochlear Implant
Trialling a Neptune
SURROUND SOUND
Vanderbilt Image-Guided Mapping Test Results
Laurie's Dance with Sound
HLAA July/August 2012 Magazine Cover
3 years ago
My Son Tom
Milo
Debs' Hearing Journey
Telephone
4 years ago
Gina Sprenkel - My New Life of Hearing
I'm a Saladaholic
Silent Sail
Happy New yEar
5 years ago
Subtitles wedding photography
Phone and Music with CI nearly 2years on
Kirsty's Cochlear Implant
NOT HEARING VERY WELL
CI Borg
Some Updates
Bionic Wombat - Bilateral cochlear recipient
July 2010
Amanda's Cochlear Implant Journey
Amanda update-March 10, 2010
Kate's Cochlear Implant
My final post? 7 months on
CHRONICLES OF A BIONIC WOMAN
Free Neckloop From Clarity If Attending HLAA Convention
6 years ago
deafgirllovessoaps
Today's Appointment
The journey of Claire's cochlear implant
3-monthly tune up
Dawne's CI Journey
Wow
7 years ago
the DeafBlog
Followers
Blog-Network
NetworkedBlogs
Blog:
Katie's Cochlear Implant Journey
Topics:
CI, BSL, Disability
Join my network
Number of Visitors
click for free hit counter code
html hit counter
Advice/Support From Experience Cochlear Implant users
Click the logo to find out more!
I was implanted in April '08. I have written about my experiences from
times to implantation to the present day. This would be a useful
resource for anybody who has been recently implanted or is going
through the assessements. I suggest you to look back at the blogpost in
April to the present date
There are useful Links to other bloggers or CI related are shown at the
bottom of this page!
If you have any question?
E-mail me bionic-katie@live.co.uk
or Join Advanced Bionics UK facebook group ; click here
Find me on Facebook!
Katie-louise Bailey's Facebook Profile
Top 15 Blog Award
Top Cochlear Implants Blog
A New Year 2009 Counter To See Where My Visitors are From?
free counters
Subscribe me
[arrow_dropdown.gif] Posts
[subscribe-netvibes.png] [subscribe-yahoo.png] [icon_feed12.png] Atom
[arrow_dropdown.gif] All Comments
Click the picture to enter their site!
Katie's C.I Centre
My Videos
Loading...
Myself & My Team In Russia
Richard & Me
Me and My Idol (Gareth Gates)
Useful Cochlear Implants websites
Me and the squad in Germany
Picture Window template. Powered by Blogger.
