Implant Blog - RSS

Katie-Louise's Cochlear Implant Blog
A Positive Journey with an Advanced Bionics Cochlear Implant!
Tuesday, 3 February 2009
Adult CI Users Day - Telephones
Last Saturday, I went to a workshop at the Ear Foundation! Like before,
we had 30 minutes of any choices of session we chosen. I went to:
Richard - Talk more about Advanced Bionic Cochlear Implant.
This session was very interested. We talked about the futures
techonologys and also ask any questions about the AB processors. It
good to hear that they looking at future processors that have smaller
batteries and also more choices of colours (i'm excited, and want
them). They are now looking at making a pink processor! Wow, it be
good.
Andrew - Talk about equipments they you could try when using the
phone/mobile
I liked this session, I tried out this bluetooth device which I tried
out for the first time. The blue device called 'Geemarc CL Bluehook '
which you can buy from 'Connevans' As I tried it, y ou didn't need to
change hooks or anything, you only had to turn you setting to a loops
channel and place the hook over your ears. While I tried it, Andrew
tried phoning me and I only had to press answer on the phone and then
just listen through the blue tooth device. It sounded quite good
because I were in the same room he sounds robotic and because I were
lip-reading him while he were talking there were a bit of a delay on
the voice I hear. So, I decided to go out the room and see if I could
hear him then. Sue were out of the room with me and andrew were in the
other and decided to ask me a question to see if I could get what he
aid. He asked me " how long it took you to get to the Ear Foundation"
I heard what he said and ask sue and she nodded yes, and I answer back.
It was great to hear out of that and now I am thinking of buying one
once I have more practise with talking to other people on the phone.
Maria - Telephone Commuication tips
This session was all about how to communicate better on the phone and
how to make the better of it. It was good practise by using these
useful role play scripts. I tried out talking on the phone to Maria
while she was out in another room and had to listen out what she said
and talk to her back. I managed to do it and while following the
cripts, I manage to pick out some of the words in the sentences. It a
good way of learning.
Here one script and give it go!
Sam; Hello?
John: Hi! Its John. Can I speak to Sam please?
Sam: Hi John! It's me! How are you?
John: Fine thanks. Are you coming over on Thursday?
Sam: Yes. What time do you want me?
John: How about 8pm.
Sam: That;s Great. I'll bring a bottle of wine.
John: Sounds better by the minute.
Sam: See you Thursday then. Bye
John: Bye.
Using this Scripted conversation really does help and the more practise
you do the better you'll get. I am now practicing more and hopefully
i'll get better at it.
Anyway after a successful day at the Ear Foundation, some of us decided
to go out for a Chinese meal to help celebrate Abi's birthday. We all
had a great evening and are now looking forward to the next upcoming
Ear Foundation dates!
Me and Debs who also has an AB processor
Posted by Katie-Louise's blog at 21:49 3 comments: Links to this post
Monday, 2 February 2009
Fun in the Snow!
Today, where I live has a big snow fall. We don't normally get that
much snow that often and today has been a biggest snow fall we had in
years!
Its amazing to see how muc noise we make while we're walking on the
now. all we hear is crunching sounds on every footsteps we made.
Richard and I had some fun in the garden and made a few snowman, check
them out!
Posted by Katie-Louise's blog at 17:06 No comments: Links to this post
Sunday, 1 February 2009
CI Fashion
As most of you know, I am a huge fan of fashionable clothes and that I
like to make sure everything matches and look right.
I also like to make sure I match my CI colours to my clothes too. I
know, I'm crazy but I love it.
Advanced Bionic do quite a lot of colours, but there are some colours
they don't do like, Pink, Red, Yellow etc
So, after my favourite colour case broke 'purple' I had other colours
but it wasn't enoug h to match and I had these plain colours which I
haven't yet used because they were boring to me.
Somehow after telling dad that I wish AB would do more colours, dad
came up with an Idea and said I know just what might help you. Dad
uggested us to go an Art & Craft shop and buy some plastic sprays of
the colours I wanted and he said they he will spray it and see what the
results would be. I thought It was a good idea and had to ask my mate
manda if she know where the shop is.
After visiting the shop, I brought Pink, Red, Gold, Yellow, While,
Bright Green, Light Purple spray which coz about £2 each per a can and
decided to spray the boring plain colours I had and what I have not yet
used and guess what? It worked! Dad sprayed a nice pink colour on one
of my CI covers and It looks just how they make it. The pink matches
the top Im wearing and now I finally have a pink, red, gold, yellow,
bright green, light purple covers alone with all the other colours I
have. You see below on other pictures that I like to match my CI
colours to what I am wearing:
Posted by Katie-Louise's blog at 00:18 12 comments: Links to this post
Wednesday, 28 January 2009
New family member! Argh! How noisey?
Hey all, I haven't forgotten about the blogs, I am still around. I have
been soooooo busy just laterly and last week was the most exciting and
nervous week for our family. My sister had given birth to a baby boy
and called him Dylan. Yep, I am now 'Aunty Katie-Louise! argh! that
makes be feel old but I please to welcome him into the family!
I have never really been with young babies since switch on. I have
never actually heard them cry in person apart from seening them cry on
tv etc. I mean, I can't believe how much Dylan has been crying over the
past week - He would only cry if he wants feeding, changing or if any
of us disturb him in his sleep. It the first time I heard cry and I'm
glad I am able to hear my cute little nephew which was a pleasure to
hear!
After hearing Dylan cry alot, I do tend to turn my implant right down
or go into another room for a bit till my sister or his dad sort him
out. I find it a bit hard to ignore which I am gonna try my best to get
used to it.
I must say, I am sooooooo glad I don't hear anything at night time with
I put my own implant to bed, though I do feel sorry for the others.
hehe
Posted by Katie-Louise's blog at 22:35 19 comments: Links to this post
Saturday, 17 January 2009
Signed Video Songs
Thought it be nice to share some signed videos by BSL (British sign
language) users! Have fun watching and listening ;-)
Sugarbabes - 'Hole in the Head'
[EMBED]
Will Young - Evergreen
Whitney Houston - I Have Nothing
Posted by Katie-Louise's blog at 22:23 6 comments: Links to this post
Thursday, 15 January 2009
online Video & Audio chat - new CI moment!
Last night I went to my friends house who lives about 5 minutes away.
While I were over at her house. Kara and I decided to go online and try
out skype and oovoo video chat with Jennifer (Amanda's Stepmother)
we planned to go online at a certain time as USA and UK hours are
different, Kara and I were so keen to learn ASL and so that Jennifer
could be our online ASL teacher.
It was 7:30pm and 11:30am over there - When we manage to sort the video
chat and saw Jennifer. When Jennifer first saw us on the video chat,
Kara and I were signing away and the first thing Jennifer said was
"woah, I don't even have a clue on what you are saying" we both laughed
as it would be the same for us if Jennifer signed in ASL.
As we got going, Jennifer taught us the Alphabet, Animals, Numbers and
ome everyday signs. It was really interesting to learn, I mean, BSL
(British Sign Language) and ASL (Amerincan Sign Language) are
completely different and we both wanted to learn ASL and learning ASL
would help us when we both go over USA this summer to meet other deaf.
As we tried them, some were quite difficult and some were quite funny!
While we were practising, Jennifer said she could hear us laughing and
giggling away and she asked if she could hear her. We couldn't hear
Jennifer because out laptop was set as mute. Not many deaf people would
have it on and wouldn't bother changing it. So, we both decided to put
the volume on and as we did it, we didn't realise that the volume was
on full and when Jennifer said hello, we both was shocked and put our
hand over our ears. It was sooooo loud and kara had to turn it down
quick. When we heard Jennifer talking we could also hear alot of
background noise coming from where Jennifer is. We could hear, Jennifer
typing to us, wind as she was outside and cars passing by as she
mentioned she lives on a corner and also we could hear goldy her cute
little dog
That was all new to me, I never heard from a laptop in a video call. I
would normally use it and would signing away to my friends on there but
never had the audio bit on. I decided to say "Hello" and Jennifer could
also hear me too. I was impressed when she said it was clear :-D
Jennifer also decided to sing to us to give us a listening practise.
She sanged Twinkle Twinkle little star, lol It was good but sooooooo
funny because she wanted to make sure no-one was walking past, haha.
Not only that Jennifer were talking to her Husband, Gonzalio. While
Jennifer were talking to Gonzalio, we were listening and her accent was
ooooo American. We manage to pick out some words on what she said and
typed it and Jennifer said that was right.
After that, joseph also joined in the video chat too and we could hear
jospeh talking too. We were able to tell there two 2 people talking as
each voice sounded different.
So, what a brilliant evening and another new C.I moment along with some
fantastic Sign and look forward to doing the video chat again
ometimes.
To those that don't know Jennifer, she also has a blog about cochlear
implant as her stepfdaughter has one check out there blog -
http://jenniferbrunoconde.blogspot.com/
Posted by Katie-Louise's blog at 18:22 8 comments: Links to this post
Saturday, 10 January 2009
I.T Independent (new C.I moment)
Every Tuesday at university I have an I.T (information Technology)
lesson. Every lesson we have a task to do and every task we do, we
bound to print something out.
o, Last year at college, I wasn't able to hear the printers printing
and my work. If i was to print something and instead of me walking to
the other side of the class room to check if it is printing, I just ask
my interpreter who is with me if they could hear it and when they do, I
walk o ver to collect the printed work.
This year changed has changed. I do have an interpreter in lecture with
me and instead of me asking if she/he could hear the printer, I listen
out for myself and when I hear it I go over and collect it.
o, more independents and it great to hear the printer *thumbs up*
The only thing I don't like about I.T lesson is when you sit down doing
you work and while your doing the work, all you could hear is everyone
typing and tapping the keywords. It tend to annoy me,but its good to
hear it, and I am aware what it is. I just trying to learn how to avoid
these sounds while doing work without cheating (taking the implant off)
Posted by Katie-Louise's blog at 19:30 2 comments: Links to this post
Newer Posts Older Posts Home
Subscribe to: Posts (Atom)
Click to Visit Advanced Bionics
"A life with "AB" is just amazing! Without this device, I don't think I
would be where I am now! " Click on the logo to find out more about
Advanced Bionic!"
Blog Archive
Katie-Louise Tips
Bloggers
laura's medical journey
merry christmas 2015
2 weeks ago
Cochlear Kids
11 Years of Hearing
3 months ago
Sound of Cochlear Implant
7 months ago
Turn On My Ears!
Progress Report - 2nd Grade
10 months ago
Hear the Sound
Whoops the Loop!
1 year ago
Anna's Sound Journey by Freedom Cochlear Implant
2nd day with N6 - in London
2 years ago
Loudest House on the Block
We were challenged today at our teacher's inservice to put
ourselves out there and WRITE.....
Sarah's Cochlear Implant
Trialling a Neptune
SURROUND SOUND
Vanderbilt Image-Guided Mapping Test Results
Laurie's Dance with Sound
HLAA July/August 2012 Magazine Cover
3 years ago
My Son Tom
Milo
Debs' Hearing Journey
Telephone
4 years ago
Gina Sprenkel - My New Life of Hearing
I'm a Saladaholic
Silent Sail
Happy New yEar
5 years ago
Subtitles wedding photography
Phone and Music with CI nearly 2years on
Kirsty's Cochlear Implant
NOT HEARING VERY WELL
CI Borg
Some Updates
Bionic Wombat - Bilateral cochlear recipient
July 2010
Amanda's Cochlear Implant Journey
Amanda update-March 10, 2010
Kate's Cochlear Implant
My final post? 7 months on
CHRONICLES OF A BIONIC WOMAN
Free Neckloop From Clarity If Attending HLAA Convention
6 years ago
deafgirllovessoaps
Today's Appointment
The journey of Claire's cochlear implant
3-monthly tune up
Dawne's CI Journey
Wow
7 years ago
the DeafBlog
Followers
Blog-Network
NetworkedBlogs
Blog:
Katie's Cochlear Implant Journey
Topics:
CI, BSL, Disability
Join my network
Number of Visitors
click for free hit counter code
html hit counter
Advice/Support From Experience Cochlear Implant users
Click the logo to find out more!
I was implanted in April '08. I have written about my experiences from
times to implantation to the present day. This would be a useful
resource for anybody who has been recently implanted or is going
through the assessements. I suggest you to look back at the blogpost in
April to the present date
There are useful Links to other bloggers or CI related are shown at the
bottom of this page!
If you have any question?
E-mail me bionic-katie@live.co.uk
or Join Advanced Bionics UK facebook group ; click here
Find me on Facebook!
Katie-louise Bailey's Facebook Profile
Top 15 Blog Award
Top Cochlear Implants Blog
A New Year 2009 Counter To See Where My Visitors are From?
free counters
Subscribe me
[arrow_dropdown.gif] Posts
[subscribe-netvibes.png] [subscribe-yahoo.png] [icon_feed12.png] Atom
[arrow_dropdown.gif] All Comments
Click the picture to enter their site!
Katie's C.I Centre
My Videos
Loading...
Myself & My Team In Russia
Richard & Me
Me and My Idol (Gareth Gates)
Useful Cochlear Implants websites
Me and the squad in Germany
Picture Window template. Powered by Blogger.
