
kip to main | skip to sidebar
CHRONICLES OF A BIONIC WOMAN
__________________________________________________________________
Enter search keyword Search
Thursday, June 11, 2009
Free Neckloop From Clarity If Attending HLAA Convention
:)
Data entered by Abbie at 11:40:00 PM 4 comments
Catagories: Amplified Neckloop, Clarity, HLAA, HLAA Convention,
Neckloop
Monday, June 01, 2009
Why Did I Choose Advanced Bionics?
I decided to do a little spring cleaning to my inbox and I noticed that
my sent folder was overflowing with emails answering why I picked
Advanced Bionics for my cochlear implant. It seems that after a 100 or
blog. :)
There are several reasons I chose AB. I wanted to be able to hear
better in noise. I wanted to be able to use the phone like a normal
person. I wanted to be able to listen to music with ear buds that
otherwise proved completely useless to me when I had a hearing aid –
the ear was already full enough :) I wanted to be able to transition
through different sound environments without fiddling around with the
program. I wanted rechargeable batteries because they are safer for the
environment and economically friendlier. I wanted the support that was
needed that goes along with learning how to hear with a cochlear
implant and because of Hearing Journey, I got answers the second I post
a question. I wanted to be able to access the latest MRI technology
with minimal surgery. I wanted promises of future technology designed
to emulate better hearing without further surgery. I wanted total
reliability. I wanted the implant to withstand sweating when I work out
ince I was forever killing my hearing aids. I wanted to push the
envelope of hearing. When it came down to it – AB was the only company
that could give me that.
1. T-Mic Microphone
The T-Mic ear hook is only available with Advanced Bionics cochlear
implant system. This is not to be confused with the T-Coil, an option
that can be turned on by your audiologist on your Harmony Processor. It
uses the natural shape of the ear to emulate natural hearing. It helps
to provide clarity that is needed for speech and is absolutely
fantastic in noise because you can rotate your ears to what you want to
focus on like a normal hearing person. It comes in two sizes, standard
for big ears like mine and pediatric size for itty bitty ears.
Being a long term hearing aid wearer, I was familiar how directional
microphones (catches the sound in front of you) and omni-directional
microphones (catches the background sound) works but this design
intrigued me. With the T-Mic earhook, I can just put the telephone up
to my ear without fiddling with anything and the background noise
immediately fades away making the your voice or the person on the other
end of the phone the dominant sound . When you or the person stops
talking, the background noise will become noticeable. It is the same
phenomena when I wear a Bluetooth headset and stick IPOD ear buds in my
ear. These are things I never thought would be possible with a hearing
aid.
2. Auto Sound
The phenomenon that I was just talking about is called Auto Sound which
automatically adjusts for the environment that you are in. I shall
pare you the technicalities of it all. It allows you to hear whispers
to shouts without flipping a switch. You don't have to fiddle around
with programs. This is a cut and paste from a bilateral AB user that
lives with a bilateral Freedom user that explains how useful it is to
have valuable Auto Sound is.
My resident (bilateral) Freedom user having to switch for the
phones, having to switch for restaurants, having to switch back for
normal conversations. When we listen to music, he switches and
witches programs trying to find something that sounds ok. He gets
frustrated with it. If he forgets to switch back, he can spend the
morning not hearing well in normal situations, with his voice louder
than necessary. That is my tip off that he forgot to switch
back...so I will have him check and sure enough, he forgot to switch
back from whatever program he was using, back to his "everyday"
program.
I would be highly agitated if I had to keep flipping programs to go
from my house, to my car, to work. With Auto Sound, I hardly ever have
to switch.
3. Familiarity of Hearing Aid Style
Advanced Bionics has the options of three program slots and it mimicked
the style of what I was used to with my HA. Right after you get
activated, you tend to play a lot with different programs options that
AB has to see what suits you best but now I settled down with just one
program from everything: But just for sake of having options, I have a
normal everyday program, a noise/telephone program that I hardly ever
use unless I am in a noisy environment and music. I find it redundant
to have more than three program options because like myself, most of
the CI users after they learn how to hear with the CI, you might find
yourself just sticking to one. If you go to a CI clinic that gives you
two processors, a primary and a back up, you can utilize both of them
to play around with different settings until your brain figures out
which one it likes best.
4. Widest Window of Sound (IDR)
Since a normal person ear cannot process any sound louder than 120dB
and it will hurt a hearing person to hear anything louder than 120dB
which results them sticking their fingers in their ears to dampen the
noise. AB has its own ceiling as well. It is called IDR which stands
for Input Dynamic Range that can be adjusted up to 80dB. Other
companies are at 45dB. It just means that ceiling on the CI or window
of sound can process up to 80dB and then Auto Sound kicks in and
automatically dampens the sound to make it comfortable for us to
tolerate the loud noise.
If you can picture a window shut, which means very little sound is
coming through because the window absorbs most of the sound. If you
open the window a little bit, you will begin to hear some noise such as
leaves blowing around, cars passing or a faint impression of someone
hammering. I call this a low IDR. If you open the window up halfway,
you are inviting even more noise. You might get the leaves blowing,
cars passing and a more distinct impression of the person hammering but
you might hear the birds singing as well. If you open it up all the
way, you might as well be standing outside. I like to it call it
adjustable noise control. :) With a wide IDR, I can go to a concert and
hear the concert as it was meant to be heard. With a narrow IDR, it
gets rid of unimportant noise or what I call "white noise" and brings a
ense of perceptible clarity.
5. Rechargeable Batteries
I am extremely environmentally friendly. I recycle. I drive a hybrid
which resembles a hardboiled egg but you just can't beat it the 55 mpg
that I get. So, rechargeable batteries are an easy "green" option.
Advanced Bionics has two sizes of rechargeable batteries, extended and
lim. Extended is what I have which I get an average of 24 hours out
of, you figure every two days I'm slipping a new one in. I got four
batteries with my processor when I was activated and I lost one
(blushing) but three batteries last me the whole week. It is not only
environmentally friendly, it is economically friendly as well. There
are no trips to the store to buy batteries which means more money in
your pocket. You might want to buy a new set of batteries every 2-3
years but if you have a durable medical rider on your insurance policy,
that means very little out of pocket. AB provides a little wallet that
you can attach to your key ring to carry your batteries with you.
6. HiResolution Fidelity 120 Sound Processing Option
The latest software development is the HiRes speech strategy option
with Fidelity 120 options. This is an option that can help you in noisy
conditions, appreciate music and on the telephone. The only way I can
describe it is if I compare it to a camera. A hearing aid is a Polaroid
and HiRes with Fidelity 120, it is a 4MP Camera. I can hear in noise
much more easily than I could ever hear with a hearing aid. Since it
was designed with music in mind, it has been a joy to actually enjoy
music especially now that I am bilateral.
It uses current steering technology to increase spectral resolution
from as few as 12 to 22 spectral bands to as many as 120 spectral
bands. Advanced Bionics is the only company that can achieve this type
of current steering technology because it has a power source each
electrode. Other companies that have only one power source for all of
their electrodes claim that they can steer electrodes but they have no
peech strategy devised for it which makes it totally useless, doesn't
it?
7. Independently Controlled Currents or Electrodes
Since I have a technical background, I have always been interested in
how components function and it played a large part of my research. All
the components may look similar in programming, chip size and material
but the old saying, never judge a book by its cover. The HiRes 90k
implant has the 16 independent computer controlled current sources
where other companies have one power source. It is like if you set up X
number of speakers and plug them into one outlet, you will not get the
ame performance if you plug in each one of those speakers to its own
power supply. With independently controlled current sources, the
ability for tons of future software development since it can control
each electrode.
8. Internal Chip Memory
The fact that the internal chip memory is only operating at 25%
capacity means that there are tons of room for development.
9. Total Reliability of Internal and External Report
Advanced Bionics has been able to issue a total reliability report. For
the implant, it is at 99.5 on June 2008 and for the Harmony processor,
the return rate is less than 1%. I do want to point out that you want
to be worried about the reliability of both the implant and the
processor because if one stops functioning, you can't hear - point
blank. The other companies do not offer a reliability report on their
processors because it is absolutely deplorable. I always hearing about
parts breaking down and being replaced. I absolutely hated it when I
was left in the dark when my hearing aid broke down and believe me, I
have done my fair share of killing them. I felt so disconnected from
the world as I knew it. I have yet to have my processor replaced (knock
on wood) but if I ever did, I would have it within 48 hours with the
Processor Direct Program.
In 2004, Advanced Bionics was under another company called Boston
Scientific when they had agreements with two Vendors to supply a part
for the internal component. They noticed that the rate with Vendor B
component was prone to moisture issues was 1% lower than the Vendor A
component. AB issued a recall on their own accord recalling the devices
due to the potential presence of moisture in the internal circuitry,
which can cause the device to stop functioning. Not all of the Vendor B
implants had this problem. Advanced Bionics has since resolved this
issue by only using parts supplied by Vendor A. As a result, their
total reliability has gone way up.
10. Processor Direct Program
Processor Direct Program minimizes the time waiting if you should ever
need your sound processor replaced. Just call your audiologist and they
will contact AB via our secure, automated website and upload your sound
processor’s unique program file. AB technicians will load your program
into a replacement sound processor and ship it directly to you. Because
you receive a fully functional processor preloaded with your customized
program, there’s no need to schedule a programming visit. That means
more time for yourself and more money in your pocket.
Processor Direct is completely safe, so there’s no risk of hearing with
the wrong program. AB’s secure website makes it impossible for your
audiologist to upload the wrong program file, and for additional
ecurity, AB’s patented IntelliLink™ feature will not allow a processor
loaded with the wrong program to work with your implant. You enjoy
peace of mind knowing you have the correct programs—developed
pecifically for you. An office visit to program a replacement sound
processor might not be covered by insurance companies, which mean you
may have to pay the cost. With Processor Direct, no programming office
visit is required and that means no unexpected costs.
11. Support
Advanced Bionics has the largest online community forum – Hearing
Journey with over 4,500 users. It consists of CI candidates, recipients
and parents of children recently diagnosed with hearing loss, parents
of children that have cochlear implant and audiologists. It is a huge
wealth of information as everyone rallies around for support, offers
advice, shares tips and tricks about surgery or learning how to hear
with a cochlear implant. There is a CI chat held every Thursday night
from 8pm EST til the cows come home, that you can come and talk to
other cochlear implant recipients, candidates, parents and
audiologists. Just log in to Hearing Journey and click on the chat
options and you are in!
Advanced Bionic has taken it one step further to provide one-on-one
upport. They have just launched a new site for cochlear recipients and
candidates from across the country through its new "Connect to Mentor"
Web site. The new site, part of the BEA (Bionic Ear Association) Mentor
Program, that I and several other bloggers are a part of, allows
cochlear implant candidates to contact volunteer "mentors" and
communicate directly with hearing professionals. You see my smiling
face on this site as well. :)
Candidates can use the Connect to Mentor website to search for mentors
who include parents of implanted children, relatives of cochlear
recipients and adult recipients. Each mentor has a profile complete
with a personal photo and facts such as favorite sound, interests
(i.e., cell phone user, traveler, musician), hometown, age they were
implanted, severity of hearing loss and how they can help cochlear
implant candidates. Then, candidates can choose to "start a
conversation" with the mentor directly from their profile.
Data entered by Abbie at 2:19:00 PM 22 comments
Catagories: Advanced Bionics, Cochlear Implant, Harmony Processor,
T-Mic
Thursday, May 14, 2009
Binaural HINT Scores.
Hi!
The following blog is brought to you by:
Dunkin' Donuts. Dunkin' keeps me blogging. Try Dunkin' Donuts Coffee
For Free. Get a Sample
Without it, there isn't anything getting done around this blog here.
But through the miraculous powers of the coffee plant, I was able to
devise this rather inspiring little chart of all my HINT (Hearing In
Noise Test) scores.
Click here to make it bigger.
You will notice that my left ear before I was implanted was 0% across
the board. This was an ear that has been unstimulated for over 15
years. I was pretty damn deaf in that ear. I can't argue with that. :)
The red column shows my progress with my left ear tested at one month
post activation. I scored 44% in quiet. I was pretty elated to go from
0% to 44% in a matter of a month. I distinctly remember thinking that
my brain was playing tricks on me because it was almost as though I had
to learn to trust myself that I was hearing something correctly. As it
would turn out, I was hearing it correctly half the time.
The lime green column is my left ear tested at five months post
activation. It jumped up to 79% in quiet and 34% in quiet. I was
practicing with an audiobook every single day for at least half hour to
an hour. This was kind of at the point that my brain was sorting out
peech in quiet and learning how to pick out what is important in
noise. Baby steps!
The purple column is my left ear tested at one year. My score remained
the same at 79% in quiet but my score in noise went up to an
astonishing 73%. Since I scored so well with the first level of noise,
my audiologist felt that I could handle the harder noise test and I
cored 64%. I was downright impressed with my scores. Now, I was
thinking that the benefit of a cochlear implant can really take up to a
year especially on an ear that has been unstimulated for so long.
The dark blue column shows my left ear tested at one year and five
months. I don't know whether I had a really good mapping at my one year
appointment or my ear just blossomed but I scored 96% in quiet, 88% a
little bit of noise and 84% with even more noise!
Now we are moving on to my right ear that has been stimulated all my
life. the orange column shows my HINT scores when I was evaluated for a
CI in May of 2007. I wish I could get my right ear tested before I had
the surgery because I couldn't hear anything after I hit my head on the
roller coaster. But in my total unprofessional opinion, when someone
takes a loud speaker and talks to you about five feet away with a fully
powered hearing aid in and you can't hear didly squat, I'm going to say
my scores were next to nothing. Just saying.
The light blue column shows my right ear tested at one month post
activation and it scored an AMAZING 85%! Now, it took over a year for
my left ear to get up over 80%. Even with the first level of noise, I
managed to hear 40%. That will get better as time goes on. Now I am
totally giving credit to the substantiated claims that surgeons advice
about implanting a better ear. They apparently know what they are
talking about. :) It means that it is less stressful and the learning
curve is much shorter. But you know me, I do nothing easy...
The mauve or dusty pink column shows them tested together. The results
are nothing less them supremely impressive. I scored 97% in quiet, 85%
a little bit of noise and 77% with more noise introduced.
I was so proud of the good job they did on the tests that I went right
out and brought them a pair of earrings. :)
Data entered by Abbie at 3:32:00 PM 2 comments
Catagories: Bilateral Cochlear Implant, Bilateral Mappings, Cochlear
Implant, Mappings
Northeast Cochlear Implant Convention 2009
I will be attending the Northeast Cochlear Implant Convention 2009 on
July 10 - 12, 2009 at the Sturbridge Host Hotel & Conference Center in
Sturbridge, MA where none other Josh Swiller who is not only pretty
easy on the eyes but the author of “The Unheard: A Memoir of Deafness
and Africa.”, will be the keynote speaker.
You can take a look at the 2007 convention pictures here. I have to say
from looking at the pictures, this looks like it is going to be a fun
group! Children, adults and workshops - oh my!
So what is this convention about, check out this snippet below.
Dear Families and Friends,
You are warmly invited to attend the Seventh Biennial Northeast
Cochlear Implant Convention, to he held July 10-12, 2009 at the
Sturbridge Host Hotel in Sturbridge, MA. On-line registration or
registration forms will soon be available on this site. Call
1-800-582-3232 to reserve your room at the hotel, or on-line at
www.sturbridgehosthotel.com.
Nearly twelve years have passed since our first convention in
Sturbridge, in 1997. In some ways, the convention is like a school
reunion. Lounging around the pool or at a party in a guest room, we
catch up with our friends’ changing lives: new jobs, or maybe
retirement; children progressing through elementary, middle and high
chool, and on to college. And incidentally, how are you or your
child doing with the implant? How nice to hear that things are going
well!
The theme of the ’09 convention is “We Hear the World.” It is a
natural evolution from the previous convention themes of “Raising
the Bar,” “Enhancing Communication,” and “Technology Rocks!” In
“Raising the Bar” we considered the new higher standards for
classroom acoustics, the rising performance levels of cochlear
implants and assistive listening devices. The theme “Enhancing
Communication” reflected the many new technologies and approaches
for facilitating communication access by adults and children in a
wide range of situations. “Technology Rocks!” addressed the many
exciting technologies and approaches that can unlock communication
potential and make possible more complete and satisfying human
communication in school, at work, in social settings with friends,
and at home..
“We Hear the World” celebrates the many examples of cochlear implant
users participating fully and independently in the world around
them. The keynote speaker at our upcoming convention, Josh Swiller,
will offer some thoughtful and humorous insights about hearing the
world and being a part of the world. Josh spent two years living in
a rural village in Zambia. That experience is recounted in his book,
“The Unheard: A Memoir of Deafness and Africa.” Josh has had a “
large variety of careers, including forest ranger in the California
Redwoods, sheepskin slipper craftsman and salesman, Zen monk, raw
food chef, journalist, and teacher. The title of Josh’s keynote
address is “We Are the World.”
Hearing the world also implies that we listen with empathy and
respond to needs that we learn about. Like everyone else, cochlear
implant users experience passages in their lives. High school
tudents leave home for college. College students enter the
workforce. The generation born after WWII leaves the workforce for
retirement, and many of those who received the earliest implants are
now golden agers. New technologies and communication approaches can
ease the transition to a more mature stage of life. At the
convention we will explore these transitions to the next arena of
life.
See you there!
Larry Orloff, Chairperson, President, MIC and Marilyn W. Neault,
Ph.D., Co-Chairperson, Children’s Hospital Boston
So go ahead and download the registration forms here and I hope to see
you there!
Data entered by Abbie at 9:25:00 AM 2 comments
Catagories: Cochlear Implant, Convention, Josh Swiller, Northeast
Cochlear Implant Convention 2009
Thursday, April 30, 2009
HLAA Convention - June 18-21st
Hearing Loss Association of America is holding its annual convention
AND celebrating its 30th birthday in Nashville, Tennessee at the
monolithic Gaylord Hotel on June 18th to the 21st. You can check out
the convention registration package and rates here. Hurry though, the
rooms at the hotel are at 98% capacity and registration ends on May
24th. So, break out your happy finger and click on this link for
convention details.
The keynote speaker for this year is Vint Cerf, Ph.D., vice president
and chief Internet evangelist for Google, and widely known as known as
one of the “Fathers of the Internet." Anyone who had a hand in
developing the Internet is alright in my book. He is hard of hearing
and his wife is a recipient of a cochlear implant. I can't wait to hear
Cerf's up!
I just so happen to have the workshop schedule here. If you take a
gander, you see that Tina Childress and I will be giving a workshop
called "Wireless Technology Made Simple", on Thursday, June 18th at
2:30. I'm so excited because I love bringing out the inner geek in
people especially when it comes to helping them hear better with
technology. :)
AND!
I am going to be representing Advanced Bionics on Bilateral Cochlear
Implant panel that my buddy Wayne Roorda is hosting on Saturday, June
20th at 10:00. This panel will be made up of recipients of all brands.
I encourage that if you have any questions or concerns regarding
bilateral cochlear implantation and you are attending the convention,
hoot an email to cipanel09@yahoo.com with your questions.
At the same time, my very best bilateral bionic belle, Jennifer and
coincidentally Nashville's local HLAA Chapter President will be giving
a presentation on Social Networking for Young Adults. She is just the
person to give that presentation because she emanates social butterfly!
On another note, please help Jennifer reach her goal for the
Chattanooga Walk4Hearing on May 16th.
I will be volunteering at the Advanced Bionic booth just waiting for
people to pick my geeky brain about cochlear implants and the Harmony
processor.
I am HLAA's 2009 convention blogger!
I got some pretty big ears to fill here...
Data entered by Abbie at 6:11:00 PM 3 comments
Catagories: HLAA, HLAA Convention, Vint Cerf, Walk4Hearing
Your Hearing, Your Life - Free Seminar in Melville, NY
I'm attending this free Seminar on May 11th, 7-9pm at the Melville
Marriott Hotel in Melville, NY on candidacy and advancing technology in
the treatment of hearing loss. Sponsored by Advanced Bionics.
Featuring Speakers from North Shore Medical Group, Mount Sinai School
of Medicine.
Space is Limited! To register for this free event please contact:
Linda Luallen at lluallen@AdvancedBionics.com
866.844.HEAR (4327)
TTY 800.678.3575
If you are unable to attend our event and would like information
about cochlear implants, contact The Bionic Ear Association at
hear@AdvancedBionics.com or call 1.866.844.HEAR (4327).
May 11, 2009 • 7:00 p.m. – 9:00 p.m.
Melville Marriott Hotel
1350 Old Walt Whitman Road • Melville, NY 11747
Data entered by Abbie at 6:00:00 PM 0 comments
Catagories: Advanced Bionics, Cochlear Implant, Seminar
Sunday, April 12, 2009
First Bilateral Mapping...
This week has proven not be superfluous but surprisingly productive
towards the end. The first couple of days, I would be sprawled out on
my recliner, cupping my chin in my hand and staring into space
wondering why in the HELL everything was plinking. People plinked. My
dog plinked. She was plinking all over the house. I was ready to take
her plinking fuzzy butt and have her deplinked. The leaves plinked. The
wind plinked. My breathing plinked. Paper plinked. Staplers plinked. It
was a plinkerific mess for the first couple of days.
As each new day dawned, the chipmunks have gone into hibernation and
the robotic voice synthesizer has come out to play. The plinking began
to lessen leading the way to the subtle phonetic nuances to enter the
foreground. Of course, this wasn't entirely clear to me until I picked
up the phone and heard a series of numbers correctly. First, I thought
that I got them wrong but I listened with my old ear which proved me
wrong. I was hearing nothing but plinking, and unknowingly I was
understanding more than I thought. I took me several weeks to
understand numbers with the old implant. The last time I could
understand anything on my right ear on the telephone was February 22,
2007.
Naturally, my optimism levels rose. I decided to tests my brain out to
ee what else it was hiding from me. I had the LING sounds read to me,
and I guessed all but one correctly - EEE. In the beginning I thought
there was no way I could start auditory rehab with everything beeping,
boinging and plinking but with my newfound discovery, I threw myself
into it. My first "lesson" is Twilight by Stephanie Meyer. I downloaded
the audiobook on my ipod and plugged myself in via the Direct Connect
cord. I could tell that it was a woman narrating the book, but in real
life I had difficulty discriminating between a male and a female. I was
not expecting much - a phoneme or two, but much to my surprise I was
poradically picking up broken sentences. I was throughly confused when
I closed my eyes to understand real live speech, I felt as though I
wasn't picking up diddly squat. But, when I had myself plugged into the
Ipod I was picking up strings of words. I've deduced that my brain is
playing tricks on me.
This whole week I had the chance to adjust to HiRes - P. In the
beginning, it offered me less plinking than HiRes - S. So, I stuck with
P all week but on my way to my first mapping this morning, I put the
ear buds from my Ipod into my ear to listen to Twilight and noticed
that I was picking up a lot more road noise than I liked. I decided to
cycle through the programs to see whether the other two could filter
out the road noise. I was pleasantly surprised that when I used HiRes-S
at how well it filtered the road noise. I was even more surprised at
how well I was understanding - far superior to what HiRes-P was giving
me. At the last moment, I decided on HiRes-S as my speech strategy.
As I was waiting in the waiting room, I sat a good 20 to 25 feet at a
distance from this secretary who was brandishing a very shrilling piece
of machinery - a stapler! I was dying listening to every time she felt
the absolute need to fasten some papers together which happened to be
every ten-seconds. Then my audiologist came and rescued me. First, she
performed what is called a NRI test which measures the nerve response
to electrical stimulation. I didn't have to do anything but sit there
and look out the window watching clouds roll in. This gave us an
indication of where the volume should be and it was right in the
ballpark.
My main issue was the robotic voices and certain high pitched tones
uch as staplers, dishes, and squeaky doors, paper and numerous others
were causing me to brace for the auditory attack. It doesn't hurt, but
it just makes me acutely alert that they are there! So what my
audiologist did was raised the volume and added some gains in the high
and the lows frequencies. As I expected, we could not map out the
robotic voices but we got them tamed. My brain will acclimate in the
coming months. This took just a half hour, I was out the door and on my
way home. Once I got home, I crashed...
Since it has been a few days, I can make an honest assessment of the
mapping. My voice sounds like Darth Vader which is really testing my
ability to have a conversation without laughing. I can tell the
difference between a man and a woman's voice. I noticed that while I am
reading along with the audiobook, the frequency that I am picking up
entences is increasing. Yesterday, I was driving with a friend in the
passenger seat and I could understand him without reading his lips even
when night descended. Since my first implant was on my left ear, there
was always a degree of difficulty with hearing people in the passenger
eat but that has become easier.
For me, this bilateral process is like waiting for a flower to bloom. I
know the seed has been planted. I'm watering the seed by wearing it by
itself as much as I can. I'm fertilizing it with auditory rehab. I'm
providing the necessary light by venturing out into different
environments. For I know that this cannot be rushed and all I can do is
wait. I'm just thankful that I don't need a green thumb for this. :)
Data entered by Abbie at 10:23:00 AM 9 comments
Catagories: Auditory Rehabilitation, Bilateal Mappings, Bilateral
Cochlear Implant, Mappings
Friday, April 03, 2009
Bilateral Activation
My new ear was activated yesterday and the results were very promising.
When my audiologist plugged me into the computer, I could have sworn I
heard something – a surge of electricity but at that point my
audiologist didn’t even touch the volume control. As my audiologist
gradually turned up the volume, I watched her lips emit an artificially
high-pitched voice. When the volume reached a tolerable level, I
actually HEARD but I didn’t understand her talk where with my first
ear; I wasn’t blessed hearing any type of vernacular. Naturally, my
response was giddy since she talked like a chipmunk. :) It was
difficult to keep a straight face while trying to effectively describe
what I was hearing.
Once we fiddled around with the new ear, they decided to throw the old
one back on to see whether I have a sense of balance auditory wise. I
immediately had to turn the volume down on the old one. I could tell
that I was hearing in stereo because the auditory input in each ear was
dramatically different. My old ear was well, my old ear. My new ear was
beeps, bongs, whistles. After a few minutes, my old ear decided to
become the dominant ear. Once it did that, it somewhat canceled out
ome of the beeps, bongs and whistles.
No one took pity on the deaf girl because they started ripping paper,
banging on the table and tapping their nails. The entire activation
took less than an hour. My audiologist didn’t have to explain anything
to me since I am a seasoned pro with the implant business. :) Since I
went through this process already, I was very conservative volume wise.
With my first ear, it was my initial instinct to amp up the volume
because that is how you hear with a hearing aid. This time around,
ince I know what I know now, I know that you can’t rush it. Your brain
will tell you what it wants, when it wants it. I was fitted with a
Hi-Res Paired program with Fidelity 120, Hi-Res Sequential program with
Fidelity 120 and a Hi-Res Paired noise program with Fidelity 120. I get
to cycle through each one for several hours to see which one I prefer.
My audiologist strongly suggested that I leave my old one off as much
as possible to give my new ear some time to play catch up. Joy. :)
After activation, I walked out of the hospital with my slot firmly in
position for Hi-Res Paired program with Fidelity 120 and unknowingly
walked into the world according to Super Mario brothers. All sorts of
beeps, buzzing, and bongs just pulsing away in my head. It sounds all
futuristic but emanates the past of the arcade games from the 80’s.
Just driving home was a trip having the wonderfully iconic BOING of
Super Mario powering up as I drove over every bump on the road. The
only thing that really stood out is when I yawned a good healthy yawn –
it sounded like a very horny orca performing their mating call. Feel
free to YouTube that. I had noticed that I was unable to hear my
blackberry chirp or croak when someone sent me a message. A few hours
later, I could hear it. When I first got home, I couldn’t hear my dog’s
toenails click clack against the floor. A few hours later, I could. I
must have walked her up and down my 15 foot hallway about twenty times
to hear it. I’m sure she thought I had gotten lost in my own house. :)
I can tell when someone really has a good laugh. That is probably the
only thing that I can pick out right now. BUT, I did pick up that there
were some drums playing on the television.
I learned a little something about bilateral mappings – it wears you
out. I mean my mappings for just one were a bit tiring but two – Oy!
I’m not a napper by any means because I’ll sleep when I’m dead. But I
buckled under pressure and took a twenty minute snooze.
This morning I decided to give Hi-Res Sequential program with Fidelity
120 a whirl – at work. I am sitting here with my hair down cleverly
disguising two cochlear implants - the new one attached and the old one
with the coil hanging just in case I need to use the telephone. it
looks like a very ugly earring. Instead of listening to the world
dictated by Super Mario Brothers, I am on the Galactic Republic
listening to the auroral radio chatter of R2D2. When someone talks, it
is as if R2D2 has a hyperactivity disorder – different beeps, bloops,
and whistles randomly and furiously. And I am supposed to figure those
out. :) I am listening to rain and it sounds like when Sonic the
Hedgehog is collecting a whole mess of rings. When I walk down the
hallway with my heels, I feel as I am walking with the weight of an
elephant because it is very loud.
All in all, I am thrusting myself into the noisy world starting from
cratch – hearing everything for the first time – again. I forgot how
much I loved this process. :) Everything that I am hearing, coincides
with a sound immediately. That pleases me. The toughest part about this
for me is leaving my old ear off but I will remain diligent. My next
mapping is next Friday on April 10th and that is when the real fun
begins. For now, R2D2 and I are going to be buddies for the next week.
Data entered by Abbie at 1:26:00 PM 15 comments
Catagories: Activation, Bilateral Cochlear Implant, Bilateral Cochlear
Implant Activation, Cochlear Implant Activation
Older Posts Home
Subscribe to: Posts (Atom)
Cochlear Implant Activation Video Captioned
[EMBED]
Hearing Loss Magazine Article Download
Download my article in PDF file here.
Contact Information
If you would like to contact me, please send me an email here.
Conventions
Add Me To Your Facebook
Abbie Cranmer's Profile | Create Your Badge
Abbie Cranmer's Facebook Profile
Twitter Updates
follow me on Twitter
Followers
About Me
My Photo
Abbie
New Jersey, United States
Described as a technical abstract work of art, self-sufficient
ophisticated woman, a placid creature that unknowingly hunted
the knowledge of deafening silence who has nestled herself in
the lovely Garden State. Simply described, I am a profoundly
deaf 28 year SWF who has a cochlear implant as of August 27,
2007. A date I will never forget. My vocations are a blend of
confronting mathematical equations, cracking computer
tribulations, and yearning for intellectual conversations.
Recent interests include the enjoyment of culinary expression,
dynamic color combinations, and the exhilarating feel of wind
through my hair. I am fanatical about the intense color of
gerbera daisies, the hum of the computer fan, the pitter patter
of my puppy's feet. My senses hunger after the heat from the sun
ecretly creating freckles, the succulent combination of
trawberries and chocolate, and the contentment of solving a
udoku puzzle. My only ambition is to revive the sentiment of
casual chit chat and the sound of music that brings the beat to
the heart.
View my complete profile
Online Listening Practice Websites
Cochlear Implant Blogs
Five String Guitar
Back to Life
2 weeks ago
Cindy Dyer's Blog
Hearing Loss Magazine: 2015 Recap
Laura's Medical Journey
merry christmas 2015
Ruminator's Ruminatings
Visiting convenience in heaven
4 weeks ago
Sudden Silence
A Perfect Storm *
Paw Paw Bill
Thanksgiving 1978
1 month ago
Robyn the Ambling Rambler
Berlin - Day 1 - November 2014
2 months ago
Nancyes's Blog
Music is My Life
5 months ago
Bionic World
Absolution (2015) Gratis Gratis megashare
7 months ago
A more silent world
Deaf TV Show - Discussing Cochlear Implants
10 months ago
Welcome to Sam Spritzer's Web Site
It’s been quite a while….
Literally Blind-Sided
Everyday is Thanksgiving Day
1 year ago
Bionic Ear Blog
Stanford Article: Seeing at the Speed of Sound
Michael Chorost
Getting insurance coverage for new cochlear implant processors
Katie-Louise's Cochlear Implant Blog
Advanced Bionics Family Fun Day
Geo's big adventure
Empty it out
Hearing Pocket
Cochlear implants — with no exterior hardware – MIT News Office
Becoming Deaf in Norway 2007
Starting a new blog–in Norwegian
2 years ago
Cuemommy's Xanga
My dream has come true...
Being Bionic
Protected: Testing password protection
Hupp Family News
2013 update
SURROUND SOUND
Vanderbilt Image-Guided Mapping Test Results
The Bionic Sound Project
Vanderbilt University Cochlear Implant Mapping Process
Bravo Rod
Bravo Ink Cartridges - Reduce Printing Cost Not the Quality
3 years ago
Laurie's Dance with Sound
HLAA July/August 2012 Magazine Cover
Everyday Life
Wait for You/Be There for You
MY CI STORY*
upgrade, implant #2 and a CI moment
ASL-Cochlear Implant Community
Jen's Cochlear Implant Journey
Thoughts on the Cochlear Recall
4 years ago
Ted's Running Journal/Logbook
This is a test.
Sam's Hearing Life
Sheila's CI Journey
Cats, cats, and more cats
5 years ago
Silent Sail
Happy New yEar
Lisa Scene
I'm speaking in Wheaton, IL, Dec 7, 2010
Confessions of a Cochlear Implantee
Radio & Audiobooks - a long awaited update
IRV STARR'S COCHLEAR IMPLANT JOURNEY
UPDATE
Subtitles wedding service
Phone and Music with CI nearly 2years on
CI Borg
Some Updates
Work in progress....
Last day of January
Dan Solcher's Bionic Ear Blog
See pics of Dallas
6 years ago
The Royer Family Blog!
“You just don’t have that filter hearing people have”
Josh Swiller's Blog
Moved!
Susan's Journey To Sound
Technology keeps on moving!
Skullchick's CI Journey
im terrible blogger
HearingExchange - Hearing Loss Blog and Resources for People with
Hearing Loss and Parents of Deaf and Hard of Hearing Children
Support Groups for People with Hearing Loss – Why You Need It, How
to Find It – Paula’s Pearls Syndicated Article
Electroded Droid Ear
The Other Ear
Tales from a CI Gal
Brought to Tears
Quixotic Deaf
Going Bluetooth
The journey of Claire's cochlear implant
3-monthly tune up
Life In A Cone Of Silence
MOVE OVER TO NEW BLOG PLEASE
Countdown to Implant
ACTIVATED!
7 years ago
Radical Bits
Nine Months Later
The Inner Ear
Please check out my new blog!
Dawne's CI Journey
Wow
Experiencing the Advanced Bionics Miracle
My Bionic Voyage
Happy Thanksgiving!!!!!
Tasha's CI Journey
Hello!
Punisherball54
Digital Age Closed Captioning Revolution
My Trip to Hearing Again
Not Deaf
Cochlear Implant Journey
Activation Day - August 12th
Amazing Sounds with Cochlear Implant
Celebrating our 5th years...
The deaf boy in the world
Designtavaraa
Roaring Lamb
Campus life pictures
Metal Postcard
Activation Day Video (Dec. 11, 2007)
8 years ago
Been Cochlearized!
vLog on "The Greatest Irony"
All Things Related To Cochlear Implants
Cochlear implants paid for by insurance policies in the US
Ear Ye Ear Ye
It's been too long since I last posted...
Hook Me Up
9 years ago
Ear Ye
How this all began...
10 years ago
Our Daughter's CI Journey
Nancy's Blog
Cochlear Implant Online
Living with a Cochlear Implant
the DeafBlog
Inaudible Nonsense
Deaf Blog UK
BlueJeansGuy
Epiphany of the Fox
Billy Koch - Where Billy Rambles On and On...
Rachel's Cochlear Implant Blog
Just Another Cyborg
BlogCatalog
Health Blogs - BlogCatalog Blog Directory
Parents of Children with CI's
A Chance To Hear
Chance has a style all his own
2 days ago
Cochlear Kids
11 Years of Hearing
3 months ago
Jazzie and Tahlia
More backtracking
Lotte Sofie
Takîng Control..
Ethan's World
2015 -The Year of Much Progress
8 months ago
Grendel's Kitchen
For Tess: Ron & Nancy “Misguided”
9 months ago
Turn On My Ears!
Progress Report - 2nd Grade
Tayten Matthew
Reading Machine
An American Mom in Tuscany: Jordan's Cochlear Implant Story
And the winners are....!!!!
Bionic Boys
American Sign Language Resources
Live*Laugh*Love*Family
Bless his heart.
The CI Circle News
Northeast CI Convention, July 26-28, 2013
Amelia' s Journey
...........time to say good bye
Universe Cochlea
universecochlear
Life with Lucas
lucasreedcampbell
Kauan Tyler
kauantyler
Erin Toes and her Cochlear Implant Journey
It's Not Fair.
Ben's Big Family Blog
Community
Matthew Update
Elliott's Journey
Apologies all around...
Isaac's World
Long Time No Blog....
Brianna's Journey
Shutterfly...yes, I love shutterfly!
Bringing Home Marygrace
Prayers Requested
Amanda's Cochlear Implant Journey
Amanda update-March 10, 2010
Lilyhear
New Shop on Etsy - Home Business
Jillian Ray
Jillian at her BEST!
Kairi's Story
Starlight Parade
Deaf Girl Amanda
Universal Studios Los Angeles
Parker and Sebastian 2 Kids with CI's
Sound Check Mama
BlogRush
Deaf Related Blogs
The Ear of My Heart
What Activities Make You Lose Track Of Time?
CD's Journey
Changes
About.com Deafness
Hearing and the Brain
Kokonut Pundit
Thank you.
Seek Geo
Markkinointi ja internetin kehitys
Banjo's World
Distracted Driving
A Deaf Mom Shares Her World
Hello world!
Please face me, I read lips
Protected: Hearing Loop Comparison Sample (this is a test blog
post)
Candy
Turn A Deaf Ear
The Silent War
ilentwareachday
Life of the Hard of Hearing
Upcoming weekend
Jim's DEEP Thoughts
Will no longer post this blog
Paotie's Green Couch
College Football Rankings: Week Eight
Living The Questions
Still Here
Beethoven's Ears
Do You Really Want to Know?
CANDY
Mishka Zena
The Orange Deafie Blog
Indiana Deaf Mother's Babblings
Hearing Loss Nation
Visit HearingLossNation
Previous Posts
Loading...
Resources
Label Cloud
Blog Archive
Top Health Blogger Award
[wsBdgPxl.gif]
[imageService.s?size=thumb&badge=true&id=20238]
Abbie Cranmer
Hearing Loss & Deafness Community
Top Health Blogger - Wellsphere
Wellsphere
more widgets from wellsphere
Blog Awards
Treasured Blog Award Treasured Blog Award
Excellent Blog Award Excellent Blog Award
Gratitude with Attitude Award Gratitude with Attitude Award
Brilliant Weblog Award Brilliant Weblog Award
News
Blog Roll
Copyright © 2008 - CHRONICLES OF A BIONIC WOMAN
