
Sam's Hearing Life
February 2, 2011
A few months ago, my mom and I were due for an upgrade on our cell
phones. I usually get it at the same time as her so I can get the free
one in the "Buy 1 get 1 Free" special. This time, we got the Blackberry
Bold. I had full intentions on getting a Blackberry once I graduate
from college and into the "real world" but I was going to wait until
then because I didn't think it would be necessary for me since I'm just
a student.
Never would I have thought I'd become SO addicted to this Blackberry!
Ever since I have gotten it, I have become addicted with getting all my
emails immediately, browsing the internet wherever I go and all the
other applications available on the Blackberry.
But the MAIN reason why I love this new phone and why I think its
blog-worthy is that I am now able to hear and understand on it A LOT
better by using my Cochlear Implant!! Before, I've had to use my
Hearing Aid and it would always be a hassel because I would have to be
omewhere quiet... which in my case, very rare!
So now, I'm talking on the phone more and building up my phone
confidence! And I must say, it's about time! :)
Guess that "Buy 1 Get 1 Free" Special ended up being a "life-saver" for
me as it's the perfect time for me to start getting used to using my CI
on the phone.
Posted by Samantha Brilling 2 comments:
September 29, 2009
The jobs I never thought I'd have... are the jobs I'm doing!
Before I got my implant, there were some jobs I thought I would NEVER
be able to have and I thought I was going to miss out on the jobs that
“everyone starts off with” such as being a waiter, working the front
desk answering phones, helping visitors with directions, working the
cashier stand at a fast food restaurant, etc.
But since I’ve started college and become more comfortable with my
implant/hearing… I’m working one of the jobs I thought I would NEVER
have which is working the front desk as a receptionist.
For the past year, I worked the front desk answering phones and
assisting visitors who came into the Berry College Alumni Center. Sure,
in the beginning it was a little tough getting used to it, and I always
got nervous when someone called because I was afraid I wasn’t going to
understand them or to be able to answer their questions, etc. But as
time went by, it got easier and I got more comfortable answering phones
and helping people.
But now, since I’ve switched jobs/departments, I’m no longer working
the front desk but I’m answering calls about reservations in the
different meeting rooms, dining halls, ballrooms, etc.
So it’s definitely been an adventure working these jobs! Every day it
amazes me that ME – a DEAF person – is answering phones, helping
people, and training the new freshmen, etc. It makes me feel good that
I’m able to do this and it makes me that much more grateful for the
opportunities I’m now experiencing because of my Cochlear Implant and
having gone through Auditory Verbal Therapy. Without them… I don’t know
where I would be working right now.
I guess you can say that deaf people can achieve what we originally
thought was impossible! :)
Posted by Samantha Brilling 53 comments:
July 23, 2009
Body-Worn Processor can come in handy
My Grandpa has had the implant for about 2 years now and seems to be
progressing. But unfortunately, because of his age and health, his
progress is very slow. But even though it's a slow progress, we can
definitely see a difference with his conversations being more at ease.
He can hear a lot better then he did with just the two hearing aids and
we don't have to worry about him using the FM system as a microphone
for everyone at the table. He can definitely do a lot better in the
quiet environments but it does get challenging in the noisier
environments so we have to make sure we talk slow for him.
Since he has gotten the implant, we have been noticing that he has a
hard time managing his BTE processor, oxygen tube and glasses all on
his ear. It would sometimes get tangled up and everything falls off. We
have tried the earmold for his ear to help hold it on, but it was too
difficult for him to use. So as a solution, we traded out the BTE
processor for the body-worn hoping this will help. As a result, he
doesn't get tangled up on his ears balancing everything and plus, he
eems to be hearing better with the body-worn instead of the BTE!
So we're glad this is working out better for him... I guess you never
know until you try it!
Posted by Samantha Brilling 1 comment:
July 13, 2009
Jonathan's new job with CutCo!
My brother just got a job last week working with CutCo. Now for those
of you who aren't familiar with CutCo, it's a knife company that
involves selling them "door to door." Apparently these knives are very
expensive but top of the line... I don't even think you can buy them in
tores.
So what he has to do is call people up asking them to make an
appointment so he can give them about a 30 minute presentation of the
products and hope that they'll be interested enough to buy some. Its a
hard job - sometimes they'll buy and sometimes they wont.
But what's amazing is that he's able to do all this -- call people up,
make appointments, give about a 30 minute presentation of the knives,
and sell them. Literally the job of a salesman!
After 2 days of working, he's made over $3,000 in sales! Now, that's
pretty impressive!! I think he not only loves making the sales, but he
loves how he gets calls from his boss checking in and complimenting him
on how great he's doing!
Jonathan making one of his first sales!
But if you think about it, he would not be able to do this if it
weren't for the AB Harmony.
We were all kinda actually kinda nervous in the beginning on how he
would do... but he has definitely proved us all wrong - nothing can
top you from doing what you want! So thanks for the Harmony and
Jonathan's hardworking personality, he's able to make great money and
ave up for college and a new car! :)
Posted by Samantha Brilling No comments:
June 15, 2009
Keith Urban Concert!
Since I LOVE Keith Urban's music, my brother and my best friend got me
tickets for my birthday to see him in Concert which was last night! And
the concert was AMAZING! We had such a great time dancing and singing
along with Keith Urban and his songs!
Thanks to the Harmony, both my brother and I could actually enjoy the
concert and sing along with his music!
Now, hopefully next year we can try to go to the CMA Music Fest in
Nashville, TN and see ALL of our favorite country stars!! :)
"I'm alive and I'm free... Who wouldn't wanna be me"
-Keith Urban
May 27, 2009
Future Entrepreneur?
Berry College has several Student Ran Enterprises on campus... Lisa and
I started an enterprise creating an Online Alumni Collection. Since the
Alumni only have a few "Alumni items", we are creating an online based
tore to provide more alumni items for both the younger and the older
graduates. The other day we were interviewed and published in the Rome,
Ga Newspaper!
Check it out:
Ideas bear fruit at Berry
by Bryant Steele
Berry College freshman Samantha Brilling (left) and sophomore Lisa
Smith with some of the products from their business venture, the Online
Berry Alumni Collection at Oak Hill. Alumni gear is currently available
in the alumni office in the Ford Buildings on Berry College's main
campus and will soon be available online through Oak Hill's Web site.
(Photo by Lindy Dugger Cordell / RN-T)
The whiteboard in Rufus Massey’s office at Berry College (map) is a
color-coded mass of lists and boxes with lines and arrows connecting
one thing to another or more. It is what Picasso might have come up
with had he been a business major.
Massey’s masterpiece is an evolving study in a new student work
experience called Enterprise Development.
“We want to build a high-performance team, and we want the students to
be more competitive in the workforce when they leave,” Massey,
assistant vice president for enterprise development, said.
He said the program shares ideas with the entrepreneurship program at
the college’s Campbell School of Business, but the businesses this
program builds will stay at Berry after students graduate, always to be
run by students with oversight from faculty and staff called
co-managers.
“It gives students the opportunity to run their own enterprise,” Massey
aid. “The students had to develop the project plans.”
The idea, to market Berry’s products and services beyond the Berry
family, had its genesis in October. The progress will be evaluated
during the summer (summer students are keeping the pilot projects
going), and Massey hopes to have more projects up and running by fall.
Most projects have a readily recognizable Berry theme, like the Berry
Farms Jersey Milk Co. and Berry Farms Jersey Beef Co. Then there’s
Vision Studios, a video production company to visually preserve not
only anniversary and birthday celebrations but also property owners’
belongings for insurance purposes.
“For the last six months, we’ve gathered ideas. We have 200 ideas on
the business concept list,” Massey said.
Berry Farms Genetic Services can take advantage of the school’s Jersey
cattle herd, ranked No. 13 in the nation, he said. “Genetic Services
basically would have a veterinarian work with students and harvest
embryos and ship them frozen anywhere in the world. The goal is to have
Berry Cattle walking all over the world. It’s all about continuing the
Berry line.”
The Cottages at Berry – four log cabins — are “not really open to the
public,” Massey said. “But with 21,000 alumni, there are plenty of
customers.” The cottages are being converted to a student-run
enterprise with the goal “to keep them full all the time,” Massey said.
The Berry Bike Shop is an old blacksmith shop that will partner with
local bicycle shops and provide minor repairs, tours and rentals, he
aid.
Berry Farms Jersey Milk “has taken the campus by storm,” Massey said.
It’s processed by Cagle Dairy in Canton and offered in whole, 2 percent
and chocolate. Details about offering it to the public at large are
being worked out.
“What we have in mind” with the Berry Organic Garden “is that the
average meal takes 1,500 miles to get to the table. Wouldn’t we rather
have food that takes a quarter-mile to get to the table?”
‘Sky’s the limit’
“We are actually selling product now,” said Nathan Clackum, co-manager
of Berry Angus Beef Co. “So far we’ve been mainly marketing to faculty,
taff, students and alumni. However, we will sell it to the public.
(See Berryangus@berry.edu for sales information.)
“Berry Angus specializes in high-quality ground beef and steaks. Our
product is natural, which means that there are no artificial
preservatives or artificial ingredients added to the meat. It’s also
raised without added hormones.”
The product is seasonal (January through July) and is processed by
Sheriff’s Meat Processing in Calhoun, a state -inspected plant, Clackum
The school has been marketing animals in larger portions for several
years, but the enterprise selling individual cuts just started in May,
he said.
Massey would one day like people to see menu items from Berry College
Student Enterprises. “It’s not far-fetched. It’s pretty simple to do
that.”
“Basically, the sky’s the limit,” Clackum said. “We’re going to grow
based on demand. We have the animal numbers right now to do about 40
head per year.”
Jessica Crumbley, general manager of the enterprise and a rising
enior, asked to be a part of the pilot project. She thought it would
be helpful because she plans to be a veterinarian but doesn’t have a
business minor.
“It gets me thinking about all aspects of running a business,” she
aid. “Raising steers, getting them prepped, the paperwork. It helps me
ee more than just the health care.
Alumni have bought Berry merchandise for years, but The Alumni
Collection at Oak Hill enterprise plans to sell even more caps, shirts,
motto plaques, calendars and more.
Operations manager and rising junior Lisa Smith and marketing manager
and rising sophomore Samantha Brilling will survey alumni at the
upcoming Alumni Weekend for additional merchandise ideas as they also
plan to take the business online.
Brilling, a marketing major, thinks the enterprise will help prepare
her for her career. Smith said she does it more for the students. “I
came from the business world back to school,” she said.
The Berry Enterprises Student Team is a support group majoring in areas
like business management, accounting and finance, marketing and
communication, Massey said. The group will meet at least once a
emester to discuss what’s been accomplished and seek advice from a
volunteer board that includes trustees, Campbell School faculty and the
Alumni Council.
David Reeves, a rising senior and visual communications manager, is on
the
BEST team and is Web designer for the entire project.
“Most purchases will be made online eventually,” he said. “The Web is
now the new Yellow Pages that everyone can go to for reference.”
“Our home page will be about how we’ve come about, who we are, have
contact information and a link to all the enterprises.” It will include
information about how the project helps further education, he said.
‘Premier work institution’
The program has levels of work. Freshmen start at level one and have
the opportunity to reach level five and run entire programs.
“The ultimate vision is student-run enterprises,” Massey said.
“Academics are still first, but work is a unique component.
“Berry’s vision is to be known as a premier work institution in the
nation,” Massey said. “By the time students graduate, up to 95 percent
have worked on campus. It’s the culture.”
May 19, 2009
Connect to a Mentor
An article from Advanced Bionics:
Advanced Bionics is connecting cochlear implant recipients and
candidates from across the country through its new "Connect to Mentor"
Web site.
Valencia, Calif. (PRWEB) May 18, 2009 -- In the first such online
community of its kind, Advanced Bionics, the only U.S.-based
manufacturer of cochlear implants (or "bionic ears"), is connecting
cochlear recipients and candidates from across the country through its
new "Connect to Mentor" Web site. The new site, part of the BEA (Bionic
Ear Association) Mentor Program, allows cochlear implant candidates to
contact volunteer "mentors" and communicate directly with hearing
professionals.
"Advanced Bionics has an actively engaged population of 6,000 BEA
members," said CEO Jeffrey Greiner of Advanced Bionics. "In developing
this Web site, the company realized that its most valuable assets are
cochlear implant recipients themselves. This site allows them to share
their experiences, offer advice to others who might be thinking of
being implanted, and help them navigate the process from surgery to
entering the hearing world."
http://www.bionicear.com/CTM
May 15, 2009
Hearing Journey
Advanced Bionics has a website called the Hearing Journey which is a
community website for all AB staff, AB CI users and potential CI users
who come together to ask questions and to help others with their
questions and concerns. This is also a great way to meet and connect
with other people who are going through the same journey with getting
the CI.
I'll be honest, at first, I wasn't a fan of the site. I liked the
concept of it and thought it was great. But when I first became a
member and started looking around at the different topics, I thought it
was a bit obnoxious. There were so many people posting comments, I
couldn't keep up.
But now, that I've had more time to explore the site... I've started to
catch on and is enjoying the site more. It has a lot of helpful
topics... even for me!
Some of the topics include:
- Sports & Protection
- Telling people about the CI
- Alarm Clocks
- Surgery Concerns
- Mapping Tips
- Information about the CI parts
---and many more!
So I suggest you to sign up for the Hearing Journey website and read
what other people have to say. Or maybe post your questions/concerns so
you can get even more feedback from just reading these blogs.
www.HearingJourney.com
May 7, 2009
Audio Tours in Museums!
Last weekend, my Mom and I went to the Mummy Museum and we paid for the
Audio Tour. We assumed it was going to be a little recording with
headphones to listen with as you walk around. I used that when I went
to the Art Museum downtown… instead of using the regular headphones
that came with it, I would just plug in my direct connect cord from my
implant to the recorder so I could hear it better. It was great!
But suprisingly, this place was more advanced and had personal
walkie-talkie phone type things we listen too. When they handed this to
me, I wasn’t sure how this was going to go. But we figured we’d try it
out anyways.
As you can see from the picture below, it was basically like holding a
TV remote to our ears and listen to it…. It was like we were from the
future! I felt like such a dork walking around with that! haha
But surprisingly, I could understand most of it! In fact, we got more
information and details then a person who didn’t have the audio tour!
It was like we had our own personal behind-the-scenes tour guide!
So being that I love learning about mummies and Egypt, I was very
thankful we got the Audio Tour and that I could hear it! :D
April 3, 2009
The Wonderful World of BEA Mentors!
Last weekend I flew out to Valencia, California for Advanced Bionic’s
BEA Mentor Training Weekend with about 40 other people who also have
the Advanced Bionics Cochlear Implant or someone else in their family
does. It was so much fun learning about the company, about the things
coming out in the future, seeing AB’s headquarters, meeting all the BEA
and AB staff and learning how to be a better mentor.
I also had a great time meeting other people who have the CI and
hearing about their hearing journey and what it was like for them to go
through the process of getting the implant. It’s amazing to me to hear
all the stories of what it was like, because it seems like we all have
unique situations that we’ve been or are going through. Here are a
couple pictures of me with some of the other CI users I met…
I edited my links list which is to the right, below my profile box. As
you can see, there are three categories: Resources, Other Bloggers, and
Other ways to find me.
In the “Resources” category, there are some important links to check
out for when you are going through your CI journey…
The Auditory Verbal Center is the center I went to for Auditory Verbal
Therapy to help train my brain to hear and understand with the CI. This
is also the center that taught me to hear and speak when I was
diagnosed at 2. So I went there for therapy when I was youger to learn
to hear and speak with my hearing aids... then when I got my CI, I went
back for a couple months for some more therapy.
Advanced Bionics, as you probably already know, is the Cochlear Implant
company I have… best choice I ever made! This is the link to their
website in case you want some more information anout the company.
Hearing Journey is an online community through Advanced Bionics to
where other CI users and potential CI users can post topics and discuss
their questions or concerns.
Hearing Exchange is Paula Rosenthal’s site for blogs and recourses of
people with a Hearing Loss. On Facebook, she also has two groups you
can join called “HearingExchange” and “HearingExchange Teens.” I am a
member of both groups, which is cool because you can meet other deaf
people and post on discussions within that group. It’s a fun way to
meet other deaf people in your area and throughout the country.
Deaf Village is also a website like Hearing Exchange to where you can
find information and resources about Hearing Loss and other deaf
people.
The next Category is “Other Bloggers" and as you can tell, there are
three subcategories for Adults, Young Adult/Teens and Children. So
depending on your situation, you can also find someone else w ho might
be going through the same challenges as you. They are all great Mentors
and some of them I had the privilege of meeting at the BEA Mentor
Training this past weekend. So I highly recommend checking them out
too! :)
And lastly, “Other ways you can find me” is for anyone who would like
to find me outside of my BlogSpot… through Facebook, Twitter, MySpace,
Email, AIM and/or Skype. I love getting emails and meeting new
people... so feel free to find me or add me as a friend! :)
I hope these links will be beneficial to you and if you have any other
questions or comments, dont hesitate to ask/tell! :)
January 5, 2009
A Flock of Geese
My friend John, who just got the implant, was telling me today about
how he heard a flock of geese for the first time!
The other day, he went hiking with his dog and heard this weird sound
and couldn't figure out what it was. But he noticed his dog looking up,
geese flying above him!
He was so excited that he could hear them because before he would have
been completely oblivious to them... he would never have known they
were flying above him unless he was actually looking at the sky.
Now, if you were out and enjoying nature taking nice hikes through the
woods, wouldn't you want to get the full effect and hear all the neat
ounds of birds and animals? I know I would! :)
I guess its the little things that we take for granted that mean the
most...
It always makes me happy when deaf people hear new sounds for the first
time making their faces glow with excitement! I guess you never know
what you're missing out on until you hear something for the first time.
January 3, 2009
Living Apartment Style...
I always laughed when people would complain about how they could hear
their neighbors when they lived in apartments because I never really
thought I would have to worry about it. I never really thought it would
bother me because at night I would just take my hearing equipment off
and I wouldn't hear anything.
But scratch that...
The other week I stayed with some friends in New York City in their
apartment which happened to be on the 17th floor. But even though it
was pretty high up, I could STILL hear the traffic outside! It was so
annoying when I would be reading or just hanging out there when every
ten minutes I'd hear someone honk their horn or hear the police or
ambulance go by! It was almost like the windows were open, but they
weren't! lol
Even though I wouldn't want to listen to that everyday in my own
home... I still thought it was kinda cool that I could hear everything
outside from the 17th floor! lol I guess that's something you'd just
have to learn to deal with living in the big city!
Here's a picture of the view outside the window...
The city was so much fun though... we had the view of the Empire State
Building! :)
December 11, 2008
First Semester of College.... DONE!
So I survived my first semester of College! SWEET!
It's been a great semester of both good and hard times with basically
tarting over leaving high school behind, making new friends, living on
my own with a roommate, starting a new job (with fancy paychecks!), and
keeping up with all my classes... but most of all, just having fun as a
college student! :)
When I first enrolled to Berry, I was given several options because of
my hearing:
- Option One: Private room
- Option Two: Note-taker, FM system, etc. to help me in classes (like
the 504 plan in high school?)
- Option Three: Fire alarm with a blinking light
But I didn't take the first two... just Option Three for safety
reasons.
Option One Explanation:
One of the main challenges about college is learning how to live and
deal with a roommate. I wanted to experience college to the fullest, so
I decided to try it out with a roommate and see how it goes - just so I
can say I've tried it.
It was weird and kind of nerve-wrecking at first. I wasn’t sure what it
was going to be like having to share a room with a girl I didn’t even
know. I was also nervous about at night when I take my hearing
equipment off. I wasn't sure if I was going to be missing out on stuff
or if my roomie would have people in the room or would be going through
my stuff while I'm asleep and unaware. And the thought of that kind of
freaked me out.
But then as the year went on, living with a roommate is like living
with a sister I never had, which had both its good and bad times. haha
And about the night time worries… that’s basically a trust issue. I
just learned to trust my roommate and set some ground rules in the
“roommate contract” that everyone had to do in the beginning of the
year, to make sure that we don’t have guest hanging out in the room
once one of us is asleep.
But I gotta say, it’s definitely been interesting living in a
hearing/deaf roommate situation. As it turns out, she loves having the
deaf roommate because it gives her a lot more advantages than me like
not having to be quiet when I'm asleep. But I, on the other hand, had
to learn how to be SUPER quiet in the morning so I don't wake her up.
We also had a challenge in the beginning with my alarm clock because
he could hear it vibrate. Thank goodness I don't have to use the
flashing light or the loud noise to wake me up! :P
But even though we had a few challenges, we learned to accept and
overcome them.
Option Two Explanation:
I took about 5 classes this semester, and I didn’t use a note-taker or
an FM system to help me in any of them. In fact I don’t think my
professors even knew about my hearing… if they did, it’s because they
either figured it out or someone else told them. In High School I just
told my teachers that I was deaf, but they all forgot after a month of
having me in their class so I figured I wasn’t going to really worry
about it here unless it became a problem.
So I just made sure I sat in the first or second row to where I can
hear my professor and to be able to see the board or PowerPoint
presentation for notes. And honestly, I didn’t really have a problem
with any of them.
So yeah, I guess you can say those would be two obstacles a deaf person
would normally face in college… but luckily for me, I did just fine
this semester!
Here are some pictures of some of the highlights of this semester…
Freshman Service Day - Some girls and I got grouped together to clean
and organize a storage room for a Teen Center. We found these baby
dolls so we were having fun with them haha
Giving Blood for the first time! :)
Mountain Day Weekend at Berry - each residence hall had a different
theme, and ours was the "InCLARAbles" :D
A "Mock-Cocktail Party" for the girls on our hall
Halloween Dance
Lighting the street with candles for all the Alumni driving in for an
Alumni party:
So as you can see.... it's only been one semester and I already have
tons of great memories!!
I love College!! :)
October 22, 2008
Clickers in Class
So apparently the new thing to do is to use little "clickers" in
class...
The clicker we use:
I am taking a Government class on Contemporary World Issues this
emester and my professor likes to use this clicker system for class
questions, quizzes, and/or debate questions.
How it works is that sometimes she'll post the multiple choice question
on the overhead or most of the time she'll read them allowed and we all
have to send in our answer to the computer through the clicker. Then
once everyone sends in their answer, a bar graph shows up on the
overhead showing what everyone chose (anonymously). And that's how she
monitors how the class is doing and how we generate debate topics in
class.
Sending in your answers:
The class results on the overhead:
(But in my case - without the question showing)
I think its pretty weird to think about how much the world relies on
technology. And I also think its pretty cool that I'm able to hear and
understand the questions my professor is asking so I can send in my
answer through those little-handy-dandy clickers! haha :)
October 10, 2008
Security Feature?
I was walking to my car the other night and I didn't see anyone around,
back to my dorm. But then while I was walking, I realized I was hearing
footsteps that weren't mine. So I glanced back and as it turns out,
there was this guy walking behind me. I didn't know who he was or if he
was following me so just to be on the safe side, I kept walking to the
nearest open building. Luckily he just kept walking past me. lol
But even though Berry and Rome seems to be a safe and "homey" campus,
it was still kinda freaky. I immediately thought about those stories
you hear on other campuses about people disappearing and what-not. So I
was really thankful I could hear the footsteps behind me, becuase if I
didn't... what could have happend?
Kind of a freaky thought, I know... but you just never know these
days... :/
October 2, 2008
I'm a working girl!
I got my first *real* job working at the Berry College Alumni Center!
:)
I work for a few hours everyday before and in between my classes.
Basically I just have to help out around the office/center by entering
data into Word or Excel on the computer, delivering mail, stuffing
envolopes to send to Alumni and help out with various Alumni events.
But usually I'm at the front desk greeting people and answering the
phone helping and directing anyone who calls. But then the best part
is, when they don't really have anything for you to do - you can work
on your homework - and still get paid! haha
At first I was really nervous about working at the front desk becuase I
was worried that I might not be able to understand or help people on
the phone answering their questions and what-not. But luckily, it's
actually not that bad! I've been working here for about a month and a
half and it's getting easier to answer the phone - I don't get so
nervous! Plus, it's kinda fun when you see people and students passing
through the center as they all wave or say Hi to me back!
When someone calls and I'm able to answer their questions or to
transfer them to someone they need, I always feel good and proud of
myself becuase I was able to answer the phone and to help them out! :)
This is the front desk - where I'm normally working:
Notice the phone?
There's so many lines and buttons to transfer calls too! haha
September 8, 2008
Strobe Lights
They just installed some Strobe Lights in my dorm and also in the
bathroom for in case if there is a fire.
The guys that installed it, tested it out to show me how it works. So
basically when the smoke alarm goes off, the strobe light will make a
really loud noise and flash a really bright light until the fire alarm
goes off. So now, not only will you hear the normal smoke alarm noise,
you'll also hear the strobe light blaring and see it flashing a really
bright light.
Which as we all know, means... you evacuate immediately! lol
They put one above my door in my room so if I'm sleeping, the light
flashing will wake me up.
And they put it in the bathroom so in case if I'm in the shower, I'll
ee the light flashing and will know to get out ASAP.
Here is what it looks like:
The Strobe light above our door to our dorm:
The Strobe Light up close:
The Strobe Lights in the bathroom - they put two of them, so you can
ee the light flashing in all of the showers:
Its kinda weird having the strobe lights on the walls and the ceilings,
but at least now I'll know if there's a fire at night or while I'm in
the showers so I'll know to get out ASAP! :)
September 3, 2008
GPS Navigation System
Ever since my best friend got in a bad car accident (don't worry -
he's doing great now) because she was looking at a map trying to
figure out where she was going, I am VERY thankful that I can hear my
portable Navigation System telling me when to turn and where I'm going.
Especially since I have really really really bad sense of direction!
haha
I have a weight-stand thing that holds it on the dash so it doesn't
lide around, but I also tend to just put it in front of me behind the
wheel so it doesn't block my view. But either way, I can hear it fine
when its talking to me even while I listen to my music at the same time
But I gotta say, this thing DEFINITELY comes in handy... it's also a
great feeling knowing I'll always be able to find my way home! hehe :D
August 29, 2008
Living on the Berry College Campus... :)
Well, it's been over a week since I've moved into my Berry College
Dorm! :)
It's been so crazy and busy this week trying to get situated, ready for
classes and work, meeting new people and trying to figure out where
everything is! But so far it's been going great!!
My Weekly Schedule:
Monday & Wednesday:
8:00 - 10:00 -- Work in the Alumni Center
10:00 - 10:50 -- Economics
11:00 - 11:50 -- English/Writing
LUNCH BREAK
1:00 - 2:00 -- BCC - Freshmen Class
Tuesday & Thursday:
9:30 - 10:45 -- Psychology
11:00 - 2:00 -- Work in the Alumni Center
2:00 - 3:15 -- Contemporary World Issues (GOV)
Friday:
So I have about 13 credit hours (the max they'll allow for freshmen)
and about 12 hours of work a week. Then next week they're having the
tudent involvement fair to see all the clubs that they offer and join
the ones you want. So I'm excited about that!! There's two clubs I
already want to join which are The Swing Dance Club and the Ballroom
Dancing Club! :) But I also want to find some other clubs to join -
preferably some clubs that involve community service work, so we'll
ee...
Work is interesting... I basically help stuff envelopes and mail them
out to Alumni and help out with Alumni Events but on Tuesdays and
Thursdays I work the front desk greeting people and answering the
phones and what-not. So it's pretty cool helping out in an office
cene... plus, I get my first pay check in two weeks!! hehe :)
Well, it's been interesting living with a roommate. So far it's been
going pretty good. I use my vibrating alarm clock to wake me up and the
RA's are going to install one of those strobe lights for the fire alarm
in the bathroom and probably one in my dorm room so if I don't have my
hearing equipment on, I'll be able to tell if there's a fire.
But it's been fun getting to know everyone on my hall.... the other
night, our whole hall got dressed up and went out to dinner before we
went to the Freshmen Talent Show. Last night I went to the first Swing
Dance and tonight is the Welcome Back Toga Dance! And last night, Dana
(Boy's Dorm) invited 3rd Clara (our floor) to their pool party next
monday! Dana Dorms had to pick a girl's dorm floor to invite, and we're
the ones that got invited!! :D So that was pretty cool!
Here are some pictures of my dorm....
Clara Hall's Main Entrance- We're on the 3rd floor:
Our door - Clara 310:
My half of the room:
Just what everyone loves.... textbooks!
So I guess you can say I'm officially a College Student! :D
I've survived the first week of crazyness and now I get to enjoy a long
weekend for Labor Day....
of writing papers that are due next week and reading a bunch of stuff
for my classes.... oh boy! :P
August 18, 2008
Future Pilot Jonathan!
Well, as some of you may know, my brother is pretty big into the
military and hopes to one day be a pilot for the Air Force.
He's a member of the Civil Air Patrol at the PDK Airport in Atlanta and
this summer he went to Boot Camp for two weeks. Now, to any other
person (including me)... that would be complete torture. But as for
Jonathan, he had the greatest time - learning different drills and
commands, rescue missions, getting in shape, challenging himself and
his team, Army obstacle courses, making friends, etc. In fact, he was
actually sad to leave! haha But he's going back in December for the
"Frost Bite" camp session where they do the same thing, but in the
winter/snow. YIKES!
Jonathan's Barrack, where he slept on small bunks with a bunch of other
guys:
"Graduating" Ceremony on the last day:
Marching - he's the last one in the last row - the one smiling lol:
"Goodbye Chant" with some of his friends:
Then for the rest of the summer, he got a job at the PDK Airport
basically being an assistant to a private pilot. He's learning all
about planes, how they work, how to wax and keep them clean... and on
top of that - he's learning how to fly!! Whenever his boss had to fly
to another city, Jonathan would go and sit in the Co-Pilot seat while
his boss teaches him all the controls and what-not... Jonathan was so
excited when his boss let him take control of the plane in the air!
We weren't sure about how he was going to do up there with the Cochlear
Implant and headphones.... but surprisingly he could hear everything
and could have a conversation over the headset! So that was great
news!! :D
He just got his "Pilot Physical" the other day so now he's officially
clear to take flying lessons and learn to be a pilot. He's thrilled!!
Well here are some pictures of Jonathan with the plane he waxed and
flew to Memphis.... so far he's been to Knoxville, Memphis, St. Louis,
and Athens. WOW!
Waxing a plane at one of the conventions:
The plane Jonathan got to fly... can you tell he was excited?! :P
Getting ready for take-off!
Can you imagine jumping on a plane and flying to a city for the day?!
It reminds me of the movie "Pretty Woman" where they fly to San
Francisco just to see a play..... now, that's a life! :P
Well, we are all very proud of him... this has been his dream and now
it's coming true! Now we just wait two more years till he graduate and
ee where he ends up! :D
Guess this goes to show, that you shouldn't let anything get in the way
of what you want to do with your life! :D
August 11, 2008
One of the greatest sounds ever...
is hearing your car beep everytime you lock and unlock the car! :D
I just got a new car for college - Kia Optima - and I LOVE it so much!
Its the first car that I've had that has the beeper thing to lock and
unlock the car. So I've been having the funnest time locking my car....
ometimes I would just click the lock button a couple times just to
hear the beep! haha
Don't you just love that sound?! :P
- Picking up my car -
-The tag in front.... my nickname becuase I love Swing Dancing -
-PROUD STUDENT.... I've waited a long time to be able to put this on -
:D
Older Posts Home
Subscribe to: Posts (Atom)
Samantha and her brother, Jonathan
About Me
My Photo
Samantha Brilling
Atlanta, Georgia, United States
I was born profoundly deaf but wasn’t diagnosed until the age of
two, which is when I immediately started wearing two hearing
aids and going through Auditory Verbal Therapy. My hearing and
discrimination got worse in 2005, which is when I got my
Advanced Bionics Cochlear Implant. Now I wear the CI on my right
ear and a hearing aid on my left. I'm a student at North Georgia
College and State University majoring in Marketing and Graphic
Design.
View my complete profile
I am a BEA Mentor because:
"I enjoy mentoring people who are going through the same situations
that I went through in deciding to get the implant, going through the
urgery, and learning how to hear all over again or even for the first
time. I got my CI at the end of my freshman year in High School so I
can remember what it was like before I got the implant and how my life
has changed ever since.
I would like to share my experiences with other people from a
teenager's perspective and to share the stories about my younger
brother Jonathan and my Grandpa Sam, both of whom have the CI as well.
My brother was implanted at age 5 and my grandpa was implanted at age
85."
-Click Picture to learn more!-
With my Cochlear Implant, I can:
"Be a normal teenager/young adult and enjoy my college experience with
my regular hearing peers. Now that I'm away at college, I can call my
family and tell them all about my day and about the things going on in
my life."
My Favorite Sounds:
"I love hearing my family talking, laughing and having a great time
with me.
The horn/beeps from my new car when I lock it.
Music from the direct connect cord to my ipod when I go jogging, laying
on the beach, etc.
Music in the background at a restaurant or a coffee shop."
Blog Archive
Other Resources:
Adult Bloggers:
Young Adult/Teen Bloggers:
Pediatric Bloggers:
Other ways to find me:
Samantha Brilling's Facebook profile
Twitter
Email: CreativeSam1@aol.com
AIM: CreativeSam1
Skype: Bluelime0501
Subscribe To SamsHearingLife
[arrow_dropdown.gif] Posts
[subscribe-netvibes.png] [subscribe-yahoo.png] [icon_feed12.png] Atom
[arrow_dropdown.gif] All Comments
