
Sam's Hearing Life
September 24, 2005
September 24, 05
Hey everyone! Well things have been going good here. I've been wearing
my hearing aid and my implant and it seems to really help me alot. I've
noticed that I can't function very well with just my hearing aid so I
always have to wear my implant....which is a good thing!! It shows that
the implant really deos help me and I hear better with the implant. Its
been about 4 months since I've had this implant and I am still noticing
more sounds and hearing more. Like yesterday....it was so cool... I was
getting ready to make a phone call and so I turned my hearing aid to
t-switch and started dialing the numbers, etc. and in the background I
have my music playing kind of softly, and then all the sudden Sharon (a
friend of ours) was downstairs calling me. And I immediatly
responded!!! How cool is that?!?! I've noticed that I can hear alot
from downstairs when I'm upstairs. I may not be able to undertand word
for word...but hey - if I can hear you from downstairs....I'm happy!!
Okay, well I guess this is it for now, there isn't really much to say
but things are going good here.
Until then readers.....
Posted by Samantha Brilling No comments:
August 19, 2005
Finally sounding like a hearing aid
Hey everyone, Not to long ago I got remapped and now it sounds like
hearing aids! YAY! My therapist, Stacy, said that maybe now I'll be
moving alot faster! So thats really cool! You're probably woundering
what I mean by saying it sound slike hearing aids, right? Well its kind
of hard to explain but it deosn't really sound like a "machine" is on
my ear. It's like I can't hear it "working". But It sounds normal, so
thats a good thing!!! That probably didn't make any sense but what can
I say?!? lol. Well I'll write later! bye!
Posted by Samantha Brilling 3 comments:
August 16, 2005
First Day of School
Hey everyone! Well yesterday was my first day of school. I'm now a
ophomore in hogh school! Yay! It went pretty good. I got good classes
and nice teachers. So this year should go really well. I made sure I
got close to the front in all my classes. I always have to go up to the
teachers after class to tell them that "I'm deaf and I wear hearing
aids to help me hear. So I kind of need to be near the front to hear
better" you know the usual stuff. But you know it would be alot easier
if the counceler or the principle would tell all my teachers so they
don't look at me funny. You know? But I guess thats what I'm going to
have to live with for the rest of my life. thats part of being deaf!
But anyways, I think I did pretty well on hearing everyone. I had to
wear my hearing aid and my implant becuase I don't really know enough
to go completly implant in public. But the only problem I reall had was
in noisy enviroments. But I think that is alwasy going to be harder for
any deaf person! Okay well I guess this is it for now. And I'll try to
post some more later when I have alot more to say. Until then....
August 3, 2005
AUG. 3, 05
Hey everyone! Well things are going good. I had therapy today and it
went great. They said I was doing good but the only thing I really need
to work on is reconizing when someone is speaking in the background.
For example if I'm working at a table and concentrating on my work...I
need to be able to tell when someone starts talking to me with out
calling out my name to get my attention. Deos that make sense? So now
when I'm working people are going to "pop in" and say something to me
when I'm working and I have to be able to respond back to them. So
we'll see how that goes this week. Wish me luck!
Anyways, a few weeks ago I went to go pick up my brother from camp and
I forgot my batteries at home. That was the first time I had to go
"deaf". I was quite angry at myself but then later on I learned that I
can put my brother's batteries on. And it works! I'm not sure if I told
you this or not but ,oh well! But before that, on the way home I
tarted to write a poem. There was nothing else to do - haha. I
couldn't talk, listen to the music or anything. All I could do was sit
there, so anyways, I decided to share the poem with you. So here it
is...
My Worst Fear…
July 7, 2005
I’m standing there
As the cold from my feet
Shiver up my body.
Feeling alone, and scared.
I watch the world go by
Yet I’m still there,
Hopeless and not sure
What to do or where to go.
A man taps on my shoulder,
And begins to speak but
All I can “hear” are
His lips moving,
Not a sound,
Not even a whisper.
I try to explain that
I’m deaf but
He doesn’t understand.
As he continues to talk
I feel more alone,
And depressed
I stare at his mouth
Trying to read what he’s
Saying but it doesn’t
Seem to help.
More people come and
Still they continue to talk.
No one understands,
No one cares,
They just go on with their life.
Now that’s my worst fear!
I don't know if anyone feels the same about this poem. But after the
ride home I began to realise how thankful I am for the new technology
we have today! Without this implant I wouldn't be able to talk to my
friends, listen to my music - which is by the way EVERYTHING to me,
haha - I wouldn't be able to baby-sitt, or talk to my long distance
family on the phone. I wouldn't be able to hear anything!!! Now what
kind of life is that?? So for all of you new implant users..... don't
give up! If you do....just think about the life you'll end up with.
So that's my "pep talk", haha. Well I better go. I'll write later and
tell you how this week goes. Until then...
July 25, 2005
July 25th, 2005
Hey!
Well right now I'm kind of in a "plateau". I seem to be doing ok. I can
function fine without my hearing aid... But the thing is that its kind
of a hassle to deal with. For example I went on a trip to the Lake
Burton. And yesterday we were loading the car and cleaning the lake
house. Its like 90 degrees out so my brother told me to take my implant
off because of the sweat. That was annoying because I like to hear
everything, I don't like to wonder around like a "deaf" person (if you
know what I mean). Then when we were out in the boat, I had to be
careful because when your hair is wet...You can't put it on, you have
to be careful to not splash anyone or make sure it doesn't blow off
from the wind of the boat. So to me it was just easier to use my
hearing aid. Which wasn't very good!!! : ( But I did use the implant
whenever I could. I think it's a "life-saver" to have my brother around
(who is by the way also an Advanced Bionics Implant user) because he
tells me what I can and can't do with my implant. I always forget, like
when we were going to the playground...He reminded me to take it off
when I was going down the slide. So I guess special thanks go to my
brother. hahaha. Well I guess I better get going. I'll try to keep
blogging to keep yall up-to-date!
Talk to you later!
July 14, 2005
July 14th, 05
Hey Everyone!
Sorry I haven't posted in awhile. But things have been going great!
I've learned that sometimes things can sound better if the volume isn't
blaring loud! haha. But anyways, right now I'm hearing lots of sounds.
I haven't been wearing my hearing aid and so I keep forgetting I don't
have my hearing aid on. SO that's GREAT news!! That means I'm getting
better! Yesterday I had therapy and I got remapped. Therapy went good!
I'm in the middle of stadge 1 and 3! Yay!! Right now I'm detecting the
differences between words but I'm not able to tell you what it is. Does
that make sense?? So I guess that's what I need to be working on now. I
got lots of homework for the next two weeks (next week's therapy is
canceled because I'm on a vacation). So I promise I'll do my therapy!
Its really important to do so because then I'll be ready for school to
tart. I hope I'll be able to hear my friends and teachers very well.
So keep your fingers crossed!!! As for the remapping....I think we are
going to pretty much stay where we are. Because if I go louder, things
get distorted, rattles come in, and I don't hear as good. So where I am
right now is good!!! Okay, well I better get going. I have to get back
to work. : )
Reasons why I wanted this Implant
My hearing was borderline on being a candidate for the Advanced Bionic
Cochlear Implant for a long time. But the reasons we were holding back
was becuase of my speech. We didn't know if it would go down or if it
would even improve. Your probably wondering why I would have such a
great voice if I'm deaf but the truth is...its all beacuse of my mom!
She was the one who made me go through therepy for so many years. My
mom, a therapist, and I did Auditory Verbal therapy till I was like 9
years old. Now thats only beacuse they didn't know I was deaf untill
the age of 2. Most people are probably in and out of thereapy by the
age of 5 or 6. But my speech and hearing has been going downhill for
everal months. And we all decided it was time to get it. My mom
already had to go through this with my brother, so she already did all
the resaerch on which implant was the best. So that was one step less
for me. We had already decided that we were going to do the Advanced
Bionics Implant becuase my brother had such a success with it. Other
things that we really liked about the Advanced Bionics Implants were:
the service we get (it was fantastic everytime we needed something or
even for an answer to a stupid question we had- haha), we also liked
the looks (It comes with a variety of colors, and the processor itself
looks "sleeker" and more stylish). So you can tell we are big fans of
the Advanced Bionics Cochlear Implant. But anyways, when thinking about
this, there were a whole list of things I wanted to get out of it, such
as
- hearing all the annoying noises in the enviroment,
- hearing my friends talk in the Cafeteria,
- hearing someone ask me out with out saying "WHAT?!?!",
- hearing people in a resturant and the waiter taking our order,
- and watching T.V without Captions,
I want to hear everything possible in this world!! So these are my
goals through this journey of having the Implant. Maybe this will help
you make an easier decision on getting the implant.
July 6, 2005
Getting used to the Cochlear Implant
Hey! Well today I'm sitting around the house, nasty weather huh? But
you know everyday I've been noticing different sounds that I don't
think I've ever heard before. For example...Dogs....THEY ARE QUITE
ANNOYING. haha. I can hear them licking themselves and when they walk.
I have to site there and tap them to stop licking its so loud. haha.
But oh well. I've also relized that I keep forgeting that I only have
my implant on! Thats GREAT huh?? Right now my hearing aid is in the
dry-box just collecting dust. haha. I've been leaving it there and
going all day without it. Yippee!!! Now at this rate, by time school
tarts I'll be able to hear everyone perfectly!! YAY! Well I better go.
Chao!
Posted by Samantha Brilling 1 comment:
June 30, 2005
Interesting Point about dealing with the Cochlear Implant
I was talking to this lady about my Cochlear Implant and she made an
interesting point and I thought I'd share with you. She said that the
proccess of learning to hear with the implant is like getting glasses.
When you don't have your glasses on everything is fussy and when you
have them on, you have to learn what the fuzzy thing really was. So
with the implant...you may not hear any noise when doing the dishes but
when you get the implant you'll hear noises and you have to get used to
the fact that the sound is from the water.
And I think that is so true becuase when you get the implant, so don't
all the sudden know what each sound is and where it is coming from. It
takes time to "train" your brain what all the noises are coming from.
So for the new implant users, don't get discouraged, becuase afterall
in the the long run we will be able to hear a lot! Hey, maybe even more
than the normal hearing people. haha. Wouldn't that be funny?? Well got
to go.
June 29, 2005
Today - back to hearing great!
Well today I am doing a whole lot better! I haven't turned on my
hearing aid once today. In fact my mom has it. lol. I feel really wierd
without my hearing aid but I know its for the best!! I can hear the T.V
again - thats great news! Today at work I had to cut peices of paper
and it was NOISY! Can you believe it?? I never thought cutting paper
was going to be so noisy! At school when we were doing some
in-classroom projects and everyone was cutting at the same time, I
could kinda hear it and thats with a bunch of people. But now just one
person cutting is really loud. lol. Some other nioses I have found to
be loud is water. I heard water a little bit with my hearing aid, but
that was when I was right next to it. And the other day I was washing
the dishes and it was extremly loud! That was a shock to me. lol. That
was really the first thing I noticed to be different from my cochlear
Implant and my hearing aid. Another thing that I noticed to be louder
is a light switch. lol. When I turn on a light switch I hear it. I've
never really heard me turn on a light. lol. I could also hear a blinker
on in someone elses car. I can never hear the blinker unless I know its
on, cuz then I listen for it. But this time I didn't know it was on and
I could hear it! But thats all I can think of right now...I'll make
ure I have the whole list for you to read next time. ok? Well, got to
go. Bye : )
Oh and here is a picture of me and my brother. We both have the
Advanced Bionocs Cochlear Implant. He has the BTE and I have the new
Auria. (up above) We both love it!
Not so good week
Hey! Well yesterday I got remapped. Lets just say it went okay. Before
I got there I was having problems hearing. I kept getting this
rattling, humming sound. I asked people if they heard it, but we
couldn't really figure out what it was. They thought it was the air
conditioning, or a boy banging a cup. But I don't think that was it. It
ounded like my hearing aid when it got moisture in it. The rattling
would get so annoying and loud that I couldn't hear or talk to people
very well. I couldn't even hear the t.v with just my implant. And
before this noise came I would turn off my hearing aid because I could
actually hear the t.v better. But for the past week my hearing went
down hill. I wasn't able to hear people without trying to figure out
what they were saying, so I got fustrated and I went back to my hearing
aid. I know I will regret wearing my hearing aid for the past week. But
thank god I got remapped yesterday!! We were trying all sorts of
programs to try to get rid of this sound but we couldn't really. But
then they were talking about if it was my hormones, if it was me being
tired, stressed, or whatever. They said that if your tired, sick,
tressed, or hormonal your hearing would change. But that's not for
everyone. So that could be the possibility why I was doing do bad last
week. But now I'm doing better. I'm working at the office and hadn't
turned on my hearing aid once. I could even hear Del, Mary, and Mary
Ann (all soft speakers somtimes) talking.But It was soft but I could
hear them!!! YAY! I would find myself reaching up to turn my hearing
aid on to hear them better BUT I forced myself to not turn it on!
Sunday I did therapy (when I wasn't hearing very well) and I did
horrible! I couldn't hear them call out the words to save my life!! My
grandpa did it, my brother did it, my Aunt did it, and my Mom did it, I
till couldn't understand them. We were thinking that it was because I
haven't left my hearing aid out long enough. But this morning I did it,
and I almost got 100% on the words. YAY! Skip (a good friend) and my
Mom both did it. I was so happy because I'm back to where I was on the
first week. We also tried to see if I could tell the difference between
the voices. Between a mans voice and a womans voice. I could kinds do
it. In't always right but I could sorta tell who was talking. So we'll
ee if I get it absolutely right later this week. Keep your fingers
crossed!!! lol.
So what did I learn out of this?? That if your hormonal, tired, sick,
lazy, stressed or whatever...Your hearing changes!!! So don't get
frustrated like I did. Your hearing isn't going bad, you just may be
emotional.
Well, I better go.......Got some listening to do. lol
June 22, 2005
Listening to Music for the first time!!!
OH MY GOSH!!! GUESS WHAT I'M DOING RIGHT NOW.....LISTENING TO MUSIC!
Yep I am listening to music with my implant!!! YAY!!!! I'm so excited.
I put my headphones on to listen to music while I blog and I could
actually hear it. I didn't think I would but I did. YES!!! Its hard to
understand 100% of what the singer is saying but thats ok!! I love
music and I will listen to it whenever I can!! lol. Well got to go to
work. Bye!
June 22, 05
Hey! Sorry I haven't blogged in awhile. I "went" out of town with my
dad. Okay so it was just a road trip to South Carolina and back, but it
was fun. We had to pick up Jonathan's (my brother) new dirt bikes. They
are awesome!!! I can't wait to ride them myself. lol. Anyways, today I
had therepy. I got a little bit in trouble because I didn't go without
my hearing aid last week. Ugh. That's what I really need to give up -
my hearing aid. After so many years wearing it, it sort of becomes a
habit. lol. But oh well, if I want to get better I have to get rid of
my hearing aid!!!!
Anyways during therapy we did some games. They were fun. We played
Goldfish and a rhyming game. Goldfish was kind of easy but when we got
to the rhyming game, that was really hard. But that was only because I
went with my hearing aid all week. Bad bad me!!! And of course you get
homework - lol - I have to walk around the house to see what noises I
hear (like the dishwasher, air conditioner, washing machine, phone,
etc.), I have to play card games - the rhyming game and goldfish games.
So I really need to be good and do all that before next Wednesday!!!
Well I better get going. I'll blog later. Bye! : )
June 17, 2005
MY WILDEST EXPERIENCE SO FAR
Hey! You will never guess what happened to me today!!! I was outside
with my mom and I was leaning against the car and I looked over the
other way (the side with my implant) and all the sudden my implant goes
flying off and attaches itself to the car!!! Oh my gosh!! I couldn't
believe that happened!! People are always telling me that these kind of
things happen but I never thought it would actually happen to me. Can
you believe it?? So new implant users - BEWARE! THE IMPLANT IS A MAGNET
SO IT WILL ATTACHE ITSELF TO METAL!!! lol.
June 16, 2005
[2.jpg]
This is me at my 16th birthday!  Posted by Hello
My First Day into the New World
On May the 17th I went to get my Cochlear Implant turned on. I was so
excited, sad, nervous, and everything you could possibly imagine. But
most of all I was happy and very excited. But I will tell you this - if
you are getting the implant PLEASE remember this.... Your parents WILL
cry and get very emotional. I know this because my mom is a very strong
woman, and she will do everything in her power to keep me happy. When I
got into this, I made her promise me to not cry because I hate to see
her cry. And what does she do?? She cries. She cries a lot. I think all
parents would cry a lot when their kid is going into surgery. But just
for the record, be aware that your parents, or your husband or wife
will get very emotional from getting the news of having the implant to
getting turned on.
But anyways, when my Mom and I arrived there we went into David's (my
audiologist) office. It was just like any other appointment, we say hi
and ask questions, look around, etc. But the first thing we did was
that we got my implant out - most people would probably have to sit
there and put it together - but you know me...I just had to put it
together the day I got it to see what it was going to look like. I put
all of my colors on it just to see what they looked like too. lol. And
they all looked cool. But we I put it on my head I was sad. Because it
was big. It was a lot bigger than I was expecting but I got over that
because as soon as I thought about me hearing everyone and everything
that "normal" people hear, I was excited!! I just couldn't wait to get
turned on. So we got the implant out and hooked it to the computer with
this long cord. Then we did some tests to set the volumes right and see
if my nerves were "working". Basically in the test, you hear a bunch or
ratchy noises and beeps and the computer reads weather or not your
nerves were working. Then we did another test for me to tell how loud
the noises are. I got this piece of paper with blue circles in a row.
From smallest to the biggest. The smallest being the softest sounds and
the biggest circle being the loudest sound. So we went through all
these beeps and noise and I had to figure out if it was loud or soft or
medium. That was really hard for me because I had no idea what would be
really loud or what would be really soft for me. But to some people
that may be easier. I don't know. So anyways the turning on point was
here!!! David said he was going to turn me on so I waited and waited.
David and my mom was looking at me wondering what I'm go to do. Finally
I asked "was that it?!?!". I didn't even know he turned me on until
they started talking a little bit. All I could hear were beeps for
every syllable in a word. For example "Jon-a-than" I was hear
"beep..beep..Beep". So I was quite surprised when I found that out! My
mom was almost in tears, and I was! I was so sad because I was
expecting to really hear a little bit off people talking, not beeps!!
So later on we went home and we didn't say much because we were still
hocked about what had happened.
But it gets better, and I'll tell you the rest in the next time I blog.
Ok?? I guess I'll talk to you later!
June 14, 2005
June 14 - again
Hey hey hey! What's up? Today I had a fun day working. I got a lot of
tuff done and for most of the day I went with out my hearing aid.
YAY!!! So its getting better. It sounds like the other hearing aids
that I've tried (p-4, superos, perseros, otcons etc.) It sounds
"roboty" like "Darth Vader" hahaha. But I can function with it just
fine. It just takes time to get used to it. lol. That's the part I
absolutely hate!!! Waiting....And waiting....And waiting for it to
ound perfect. But I sure can't wait for those days to come. Anyways I
guess I'll blog again tomorrow. Talk to ya later!!! Chao!
June 14
Well, today I had my hearing aid off. Its hard but its getting easier
every time I take it out. I like the looks but the sound is still
weird. Right now I have a color cap on it to match my outfit! yay!
Pictures from the first week
The Week of Surgey
On April 14th I had my surgery at Northside Hospital. Suprisenly we
were all calm but i think deep down we were all very worried. I mean,
I'm going into surgery...who wouldn't be?!? when we got there, we went
into this big waiting room and the lady would call us for us to go into
a room to fill out paper work, then they would call us again for us to
go into another room, I think my mom ended up going into like 4 rooms
to fill out paperwork. But I sat in the waiting room with my dad. But
then we went into a "holding" room. There I had to change into the most
ugliest outfits! And they put and IV in me. And later they gave me this
drug (I guess) that made me "crazy" and "woozy". haha. Then it was time
to go into surgery. We asked if I can get pictures of me in there and
with all my nurses and doctor. And let me tell you, even though I was a
little "woozy" I still remeber how nice they were! You can even tell by
the pictures. They probably thought I was crazy for wanting to get
pcitures but they still did it anyways. So now I got all these
wonderful pictures for my photo alblums at home. I would definatly
regretted it if I didn't get pictures. haha. But anyways, you'll see
the pictures in the next blog. Then I was in surgery. The nurses gave
my mom a "pager" that would buzz when I was out of surgery so she
didn't have to worry if I was done every 5 minutes. haha. The surgery
took about 3 hours. And then I was put into another "holding" room
until I woke up. When I don't have my hearing aid in I sleep like a
baby, and so I never really woke up completly because I couldn't hear
anything. So finally they let my mom come in to put my hearing aid in.
And then I was basically forced to stay "awake". haha. I remember when
the nurse would try to talk to me but I couldn't hear her and so she
finally started writing everything she was saying on paper. So that was
very helpful. I also rememeber that I had a little pain. But I don't
think I was really noticing it until I got my room and was really
awake. I didn't move that much at all. If I did I would get very dizzy
and sick. So it took me awhile to get on my feet to move. I remmber it
was very hard to go to the bathroom or even to sit my head up. But by
that night and the next morning I was able to move a little bit. Some
of my friends and family came to the hospital to see me. I thought that
was really nice knowing that they were there for me. But then when I
got home I didn't do much. I just slept and watched some T.V. Although
there is never really anything on when I want to watch T.V. Only when
I'm not. haha. But I got lots of cards and gifts from all my friends
and family. Then after a few days of doing nothing I had to try to go
to school again. I remember that was kinda hard becuase going a whole
day in high school and going up and down those stairs all day long ws
exausting. But for the first day I think i went for a helf a day and
went home to rest. But the next day I was able to do a whole day. I was
exausted but I could do it. It just takes time to get back on your feet
again. So that was the first week of having my Implant.
Newer Posts Home
Subscribe to: Posts (Atom)
Samantha and her brother, Jonathan
About Me
My Photo
Samantha Brilling
Atlanta, Georgia, United States
I was born profoundly deaf but wasn’t diagnosed until the age of
two, which is when I immediately started wearing two hearing
aids and going through Auditory Verbal Therapy. My hearing and
discrimination got worse in 2005, which is when I got my
Advanced Bionics Cochlear Implant. Now I wear the CI on my right
ear and a hearing aid on my left. I'm a student at North Georgia
College and State University majoring in Marketing and Graphic
Design.
View my complete profile
I am a BEA Mentor because:
"I enjoy mentoring people who are going through the same situations
that I went through in deciding to get the implant, going through the
urgery, and learning how to hear all over again or even for the first
time. I got my CI at the end of my freshman year in High School so I
can remember what it was like before I got the implant and how my life
has changed ever since.
I would like to share my experiences with other people from a
teenager's perspective and to share the stories about my younger
brother Jonathan and my Grandpa Sam, both of whom have the CI as well.
My brother was implanted at age 5 and my grandpa was implanted at age
85."
-Click Picture to learn more!-
With my Cochlear Implant, I can:
"Be a normal teenager/young adult and enjoy my college experience with
my regular hearing peers. Now that I'm away at college, I can call my
family and tell them all about my day and about the things going on in
my life."
My Favorite Sounds:
"I love hearing my family talking, laughing and having a great time
with me.
The horn/beeps from my new car when I lock it.
Music from the direct connect cord to my ipod when I go jogging, laying
on the beach, etc.
Music in the background at a restaurant or a coffee shop."
Blog Archive
Other Resources:
Adult Bloggers:
Young Adult/Teen Bloggers:
Pediatric Bloggers:
Other ways to find me:
Samantha Brilling's Facebook profile
Twitter
Email: CreativeSam1@aol.com
AIM: CreativeSam1
Skype: Bluelime0501
Subscribe To SamsHearingLife
[arrow_dropdown.gif] Posts
[subscribe-netvibes.png] [subscribe-yahoo.png] [icon_feed12.png] Atom
[arrow_dropdown.gif] All Comments
