child » cochlear implants Category Feed My trifecta child WordPress.com

My trifecta child
deaf plus child [deaf, autism and ADHD ]
Feeds:
Posts
Comments
Archive for the ‘cochlear implants’ Category
Keeping us busy
Posted in A mother's love is unending, additional concerns, Adhd,
Advocate, autism, cochlear implants, deaf autism, Deaf related, jaded
thoughts, Letting it out - Venting Session, Mom related rants,
progression, raking care if yourself, taking care of oneself, self
care, sensory, sick, special Needs parenting, Therapy Progress, tagged
a mothers love, adhd, Autism, deaf youth association, Deafness,
hackensack, Hoboken, ice skating, md, meltdown 2015, social pragmatics,
ocialization, special olympics, special olympics basketball, special
olympics swimming, swimming, winter 2014-2015, winter fun on March 30,
2015 | Leave a Comment »
We apologies for the intermission.  We have all been consumed with our
daily routines of school, extracurricular activities, family and friend
events, deaf events and autism alike.  I am a firm believer of exposing
him to things that identify with his uniqueness.  I am the pain in the
butt that always tests his limits and flexibility by making him try and
do new things.  I refuse to allow this guy to use the excuse of his
disability and say he can’t because he can.
As for mom, it can clearly be overwhelming some days (most days) when I
am constantly puzzle piecing my guy and trying to find the best off the
fly supports to get him through the day.  Most times, I just don’t know
what to do, other times I lose my patience, other times, I cry with
him.
I haven’t seen a full on meltdown since 2012 – early 2013, when I
brought him to a beach in CA a good 2 exits away from our home.  He
hated the feel and texture of sand and I refused to let that defeat him
and not be able to enjoy the beach.  2 weeks straight I brought him
until his tears subsided and he grew the flexibility and tolerance to
accept sand is what it is and it wasn’t as bad.
He had one most recently. Over an iPad game that continued to freeze on
him.  But what he did was throw the iPad and almost hurt someone which
is inexcusable. I took the iPad away as a punishment and told him to
cool off in the room and he lost all control. It took over an hour and
a lot of hugs and holding him even if he didn’t want them.  It can be a
challenge when disciplining a child but especially a child w autism
when they don’t know better.  This tantrum was different though.  He
feels extreme emotions and this time he was able to tell me that he,
“doesn’t like(love) himself”, “wants to be alone”, “feels bad,”.  In a
bigger perspective, it is wonderful he is able to express his feelings
but his feelings are very strong and made me wonder if that’s how he
ees himself in his own eyes.  We cried together and I tried to hold
back my tears but I couldn’t. After he settled down for the night. I
at there and cried some more. I can’t do anything to help him feel
differently about himself.  I give him all the love and affection
despite many rejections and a zero kiss policy that kills me inside
everyday.  What am I to do.  The only thing that hasn’t changed is his
ocial pragmatics.  He has and is familiar with his classmates but he
has no meaningful conversations, exchange of conversations, etc. in one
of his assessments, it states, ‘he seems interested in playing but
doesn’t know how or have the vernacular to exchange in a conversation
‘, and by that time a child who seems interested in playing with him
has moved on.  That killed me more than any report that confirmed any
of his diagnoses.  I was able to push through in life with
relationships of family but most importantly, friends and the thought
that he would not have friends that get him and are patient and kind,
kills me to even fathom.  I refuse this to be him and have a solitary
life.  After all, deafness have social communication issues or identity
issues because of language barriers and other issues.  Throwing autism
and adhd into that trifecta and it is tough.  I refuse that thought and
until he knows how to advocate himself, I’ll keep doing it for him and
finding ways to help him.
Enjoy the photos of our winter activities as well as a brief
description of each.  It was a brutal east coast winter.  It’s almost
April and still a bit brisk, we are eagerly anticipating warmer weather
and outdoor fun.
autism friendly event in carlstadt, nj
Swimming Program in Hoboken, NJ
Basketball Program, Hoboken, NJ
Ice Skating Event in Hackensack, NJ
thanks to his godparents for the peanut!
pending quality time with family
we try to keep him busy but even illness can strike at any time. this
winter was brutal
Read Full Post »
Music therapy
Posted in Adhd, Adult related, Advocate, autism, cochlear implants,
Deaf related, Loving Life, Mom related rants, music therapy,
parenthood, sensory, showing suport to other fellow parents, special
Needs parenting, the little things, Therapy Progress, tagged Hoboken,
Hoboken music school, Ms Ashley, music appreciation, music therapy on
October 22, 2014 | Leave a Comment »
Not a new concept but not an entirely traditional therapy.   At least I
don’t know anyone that has tried this,  personally.
I decided that since lj hasn’t been with therapy outside of the school
for the pass year,  I decided to entertain music therapy.  I have read
that it can provide a number of integrative therapies in one: sensory,
occupational, listening and spoken language,  social.,  etc.  It all
varies depending on the individual situation.
I decided to go for it even though I wasn’t sure how we were going to
pay for it.  Where there’s a will,  there’s a way.  Thankful for
grandparents who are so giving and kind that we can continue this.  I
ee the improvement already.
In just one class,  I see my son’s listening skills improve.  When his
father and I have a conversation,  he chimes in.  He has never done it
before. When a song of familiarity comes on,  he usually doesn’t
recognize it unless someone points it out.  Sometimes he can but it has
to be super obvious and extra loud for him to recognize it. Sometimes I
till have to point out the obvious.  The little things that no one
realizes or notices,  I do.  It’s just one of those things that only
mama knows.
This is especially great when I am always thinking of his environmental
awareness of things around him.  Thus hearing world for a deaf child
with cochlear implants can be very sensorily (is this even a word??)
overwhelming that every single sound cannot possibly be filtered  no
matter the mapping that is placed.  If you add,  Autism to this
factor,  it is exponentially overwhelming for a child and then there
are the factors of unawareness of danger,  people,  things,  actions,
etc that can affect a child w autism.  Now now the adhd  and it is a
crazy addition to the puzzle that is my child.  A wonderfully beautiful
puzzle that when I feel like I almost solved,  the Creator above
creates 5000 more pieces for me to solve.
Regardless,  I have to stay positive,  allow myself to learn as much as
I can,  educate myself, make sense of it,  cry about it,  learn from
it,  advocate for it, but never be discouraged by it.  This entire
experience as a parent has been a road less traveled.  Often times,  it
is the loneliest journey where even your other half checks out and
you’re left alone tackling this solo.  You’re everything to everyone
and you lose sight of what was your former normal life.  At least that
was for me.  Some people traveled with you, some have stayed the
distance,  others don’t know what to say or do and just avoid it
altogether.  I almost don’t blame them.  There are others that are
there and rather than understand it,  they are just accepting and give
extra attention to my child which is just as heartwarming as asking  me
questions as to better understand my buddy.  Those are the best.  They
want to understand him.  They try to be accommodating but more than
that,  they take time to learn about our journey,  they ask how to sign
certain words,  ask out of the sheer pure love that they want my son to
feel love and accepted.
There’s nothing more that I can ask of anyone making my child feel
loved,  accepted and competent.  He has an uncanny sixth sense about
finding people with good hearts. And he never ever forgets,  just like
he can’t forget our doors and apartment numbers that we lived in.  I’m
look past his disabilities.  I am especially grateful to the
professionals that make their passion into helping our kids thrive and
overcome.
Cochlear implant problems
Posted in additional concerns, Adhd, Advocate, autism, cochlear
implant, cochlear implants, Deaf related, parenthood, sensory, special
Needs parenting, tagged a road less traveled, adhd, advocate,
Audiology, Autism, biomedical technology, cochlear, cochlear implant
problems, cochlear implants, deaf, deaf autism, Deafness, hardware
issues, hearing loss, high functioning autism, lucasjc15, mapping,
medical, sensory, special needs, special needs issues, special needs
mom, special needs parenting, the road most rewarding, trifecta on
September 20, 2014 | Leave a Comment »
Throughout the year there have been minor issues that I have managed to
alleviate through swapping of parts with the spares Cochlear provides
upon our activation a whopping 5 + years ago.
Two grand old carry on sized boxes were provided and we knew nothing
about the contents.  Completely overwhelmed,  I figured we’d figure it
all out at some point throughout our lifetime journey.
Fast  forward to now,  and LJ has been having on again,  off again
issues from,  the right hurts, it’s too loud,  my head hurts,  etc.
You name it,  it has happened this summer going into the fall school
year so much so,  that we have ceased to wear the right entirely for a
week.   And just in time,  we had our scheduled audiology appointment
cheduled with Cochlear Audiologist to help us with our issues.   I
ensured we had all paperwork in place,  referrals and approvals
galore.
First, I mistakenly thought the appointment was at 11 when it was at
10:30. Totally.,  my mistake and I chalk it up to the stress of the
chool district.  Solely,  still fault.  Calendar flop. Oh,  well.
Let’s fast forward to this 4 hour appointment.  Yes,  four. We all made
the mistake of not testing him at the booth prior to our adult
conversations of electrodes,  troubleshooting,  swapping of parts,
interview to understand the sequence of events that have led to this
appointment…. All the while an entire 3 hours came and gone.  I was
wondering why LJ began to act up to the point where he began to throw
puzzle pieces and the individual who’s sole job at that time was to
keep him occupied.  Poor lady.  She was an intern to become what I
would presume, a pediatric audiologist and she had the awesome task to
entertain my child who doesn’t like women all that much.
The problems: intermittent signals on the left,  no response on the
right.  Lights flashing but no sound.  His continuous complaints for
months of pain –  yet not being able to determine if it is pain of
volume or pain from physical issues or internal device. Then both
implants shutting off unexpectedly. Swapping two coils  and having none
to spare.  All of which are completely out of warranty.  So imagine the
tress I had!
Her pale face had red marks from the wooden puzzle pieces that were
pegged at her face.  He was clearly over the appointment. He was
laughing in hysterics because he knew that she was getting pissed and
you can see the look on her face.  My child can be intuitive and could
ee that she’d reached her limit and I just decided to take over all
the while attempting to have a serious game plan discussion on what we
collectively would do after this appointment.  They were actually all
amazed at how compliant he was with me,  but how he didn’t care much
for the poor lady.  And this is how much I know much child.  In a
imple ten minute observance,  the audiologist from Cochlear said, ”
you are seriously in sync and in tune to what triggers him and what he
can potentially do,  that you prevent it before it even happens.
That’s so impressive.”  and while she said that I caught him mid throw
about to peg the said lady with a giant wooden puzzle piece.
They did us the courtesy of checking all our parts. Readjusted some
maps, flagged concerns and provided a game plan on what we all had to
do in the course of the next few weeks.
I wish it were an easy fix but we all agreed to rule out medical issues
of the internal device and if (BIG  IF) the ENT specialist believes
there is an issue we may have to,  in the last and worst case
cenario,  deplant and reimplant.  I felt myself well up with all the
ame emotions P re surgery, 5+ years ago and I had to compose myself
because we haven’t even gotten there.  I pray to all that I have,  it
isn’t the case but am seriously grateful that we had 4 bodies that came
out with a game plan on how we can move forward.  She’s hoping that the
upgrade,  sorry, new devices of the N6 that I applied for 2 months ago
will be improved so that we can see if it will alleviate any hardware
issues.   A lot of theories were thrown around: electrodes
malfunction,  hardware issues,  mapping glitches or corruptions,
internal device movement or displacement,  mapping interference, a
whole lot of tech I can terms that I felt like an audiologist
completely understanding what was being said,  terminology and all.
Why and how!? Because I have secretly been obsessing about the
possibilities and I felt I needed to be prepared.  I hate being
overwhelmed with terminology that I don’t know,  walking into an
appointment with my clueless face and having them educate me when I
feel it is my duty to know. I know I put pressure on myself a but much.
But because I did my secret obsessing,  I was able to have a fluid
conversation with audiologists like I was a colleague.  I still asked
questions though. Had to.
I pray it isn’t the surgery route.  Pray with me why don’t you.   If it
is,  I’m comforted in knowing that we have the resources to do this.
Some don’t.  The upside is that he will also upgrade his internal
device and I would like to think that those parts have improved in the
last 5+ years.  That’s comforting as well.
I pray that he does get approved for the new devices. Lots of new and
exciting options that I’m sure will benefit his hearing quality as well
as accessibility for me as a parent.  Pretty exciting.   While half the
world is busy lining up for the new Apple iPhone,  I’m here hyped up
about my son’s hearing device.
Today was exhausting to say the least.  I tried to give him a treat
with riding a steam train after the appointment.   He halfway enjoyed
it but I knew he had reached his limits when the littlest things that
don’t usually trigger a meltdown, went into high gear.  The sound of
the train,  the scream of a child,  the look of a Passer by,  the fact
that his belt was not feeling good right.  He was over stimulated,
over worked,  starting to hit others and me.  I haven’t seen such
behaviors in a few years.  Goes to show it never truly goes away in
autism,  it just manifests itself in different ways.
After today,  I just want to hide out in the comfort of our home and
not be stressed with what can trigger him from the outside.  I’d even
opt to give him a sensory break from implants if it helped calm
himself.  I wish I can just take away his anxiety or stress. After
dealing with  autism for a few years,  you wouldn’t believe the
perspective you have in this world. It definitely makes you think
twice,  heck three times for me.  Once for deafness,  twice for
autism,  three times for adhd.  He’s my perfect trifecta.  This is him
today late the afternoon,  still complaining of pain.  But he is
hearing.  I wish I knew buddy,  I wish I knew how to help you.
image
alleviate through swapling of parts with the spares Cochlear provides
Fast  forward to now,  and LJ ha S been having on again,  off again
Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive
notifications of new posts by email.
____________________
Follow
making the right decision a road less traveled Audiology Autism
Berkeley biomedical technology ca catch up CEID center for early
intervention on deafness CI cochlear cochlear implant cochlear
implant problems cochlear implants Conversations with LJ deaf deaf
and hard of hearing deaf autism deaf culture deaf journey Deafness
deaf plus decisions development emotional family moments hardware
issues hearing loss high functioning autism how it is to be a
pecial needs mom IEP interacting with Lucas isms john tracy clinic
language lj ljc love Lucas' voice Lucas improvements - hot
Lucasisms lucasjc15 lucas prof. team mapping medical mixed feelings
mother's hardship mother hard at work motherhood NJ overwhelmed
parenting progression reminisce on the journey sensory signing
pecial needs special needs issues special needs mom special needs
parenting special needs world staying strong summer 2014 thankful
and blessed Therapy Progress the road most rewarding total
communication transition trifecta vacation venting
and Hard of Hearing / US Dept of Justic
Children Fall 2011 Issue
Disorders
Join 179 other followers
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com.
The MistyLook Theme.
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com. The MistyLook Theme.
Follow “My trifecta child”
Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.
Sign me up
Build a website with WordPress.com
____________________________________________________________
Post to
Cancel Reblog Post
