
SWEET BABY MADISON
Sunday, August 11, 2013
2 Years Old
Madison turned 2 years old this past June.  We celebrated the same way
we did a year ago, with a party on our building's rooftop.  We invited
everal of Madison’s friends, as well as her favorite character –
ELMO!!!
[IMG_6377.JPG]
[IMG_6401.jpg]
[IMG_6324.JPG]
Madison, a fun-loving 2 year old, loves to play with her friends.  She
enjoys the sandbox, and even though the NYC heat is unbearable, Madison
isn’t too crazy about the water park, she says “swing is better.”
We love that Madison has a few really good friends in the
neighborhood.  She enjoys playing with this group, as well as going to
the park everyday.  However, when little kids get together, their germs
pread.  In early July, we had to take Madison to the ER with a 105
fever.  Yes, this is a high fever, but children with cochlear implants
are more susceptible to getting meningitis.  When speaking with the
on-call surgeon at NYU Otolarynology department, the doctor said, “If
it was my child, I’d take her to the ER…now.”  Luckily, it was just a
virus and she was fine a few days later, but as much as we try to treat
Madison like every other kid, there will always be situations that
arise in which we need to be careful.
Madison's speech and understanding has by far surpassed our
expectations.  She amazes us every day.  She is talking up a storm.
Yes, she is even using sentences! She absolutely loves Sesame Street.
She knows all the characters…and this is just from reading books (and
an occasional iPad application – still no television).  Madison sings
the alphabet song when she brushes her teeth, and it’s so cute when she
ometimes also sings the ABC’s when she’s laying in her crib.  She’ll
just start singing random songs all over the place.  She enjoys playing
with her “other” friends too– Catie the baby doll, Buddy the dog & Poe
the monkey – and even has conversations with them, “Catie, would you
like some tea?”  Always saying “please” and “thank you”, she’s a little
chatterbox, as well as repeats so many things she hears.  She still has
to work on her pronunciation, but she’s still just a 2-year old, and
uch a loveable 2-year old.
Madison is still receiving 6 hours of speech therapy a week.  Twice a
week Michelle comes to our home for an hour for individual therapy.
Twice a week Madison goes to CHC – individual therapy followed by group
ession.  This will continue through the end of the summer.  The
feedback we have received from all of her therapists has been extremely
positive.  In fact, she no longer has any delays.  This is great news
to receive, but it doesn’t mean we can toss everything aside.  It is
extremely important to continue to push Madison (and ourselves) – this
will set the foundation for her success once she begins school.
Starting in September, Madison will attend a 2’s program in the
neighborhood - four mornings a week.  The Downtown Little School, is a
mainstream nursery school located about a 10 minute walk from our
apartment.  Madison will be in the classroom with 9 other children.
The school has never had a child with a hearing loss or cochlear
implants.  The staff at CHC will be giving a brief presentation on
hearing loss in the classroom prior to school starting.  We feel the
2’s program will help Madison socialize and become more independent.
During the school year, she will no longer attend group sessions at
CHC, but will still receive 5 hours of individual speech therapy 5
times a week in the afternoons.
Madison’s language has been blossoming and we look forward to the
trides she will continue to make over the upcoming year.
[photo+2.JPG] [photo+3.JPG]
Posted by J. Kramer at 5:17 PM No comments:
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Sunday, February 10, 2013
Happy Birthday to my Ears!
February 9th, 2012 was activation day.  Madison's 'new ears' would be
turned on.  For the very first time, Madison will be able to hear our
voices, hear the sounds around the neighborhood, and hear us tell her
how much we love her.  This was going to be a whole new world for
her... and for us. And now, here we all are, February 9, 2013...one
year later.
It really is truly amazing how much progress she has made.  Madison had
an appointment on Friday at NYU Cochlear Implant Center with her
audiologist, Alison and speech therapist, Rosemarie.  Madison was going
to have her "1 year post activation" evaluation in the sound booth.
The appointment began with Madison sitting on my lap with Rosemarie in
a sound booth.  Brian and Alison were in another room.  There were two
figures in the room I was in - a blue monkey playing drums on the right
ide and a yellow monkey playing drums on the left side.  Different
electronic sounds (beeps and buzzes) were played at different decibel
levels and Madison would turn to the side she heard the sound - when
he acknowledged that she heard the sound the monkey would play the
drum.  This was designed to condition the child (who is not
yet speaking) to respond to a visual cue.  She passed the test on the
left ear, but was very bored when it came time to testing the right
ear.  They moved on to the next test that involved placing two items in
front of Madison (i.e. Bunny "hop hop hop" and Airplane "Ahhhh").
Alison would make a sound (either "hop hop hop" or "Ahhhhh") and
Madison would have to select the right item.  She had no interest in
'playing' this game.  We were asked if they incorporate this 'play'
into her therapy at all and Brian and I said that they did this
activity, a while ago.  We then said that they have moved on to the
next step... now her therapist is having Madison repeat words and put a
block into a basket after she hears it.  They were amazed, stating that
is very advanced... but figured they would give it a try!  An actual
piggy bank was placed in front of Madison with a stack of colored
plastic coins.  She held a coin up to her ear.... Waited... Alison said
the word "Shoe".  Madison repeated the word and put the coin in the
bank! Madison than said, "I want more coins".  She was given another
coin... held it up to her ear... and waited for the next word.  Alison
aid about 10-15 words.  Madison repeated all of them, with some
pronunciation errors here and there.  Both the audiologist and speech
therapist were amazed with Madison's responses.
Once the formal evaluation finished, we met in a conference to discuss
her results.  Madison is hearing well with-in range of conversational
peech (which is the target range for someone with a cochlear
implant).  We were told that her expressive language exceeds that of
other 20 month children, born with typical-hearing.  It was gratifying
to receive this feedback.  We thank her wonderful therapists at CHC -
Katilyn, Fara & Michelle... and are so incredibly lucky to have a
caring, dedicated nanny, Gloria, who is an integral part to Madison's
uccess.  Madison is one lucky girl to have so many family and friends
who care deeply for her and just want her to be successful and achieve
all that she aspires to... and we certainly believe that she will do
o!
Her therapy schedule has stabilized into:
-       4 hours week at CHC (2 individual/2 group)
-       2 hours week at home
We know there is still a lot more ground to cover.  We were told that
the surgery would be about 5% (CI technology), with the
parents/caretakers and the therapy as the remaining 95%.  Brian and I
are excited what this next year will bring and believe Madison will
continue amazing us on this journey.
HAPPY HEARING BIRTHDAY MADISON!!!
[IMG_6250.JPG]
[IMG_6256.JPG]
[IMG_6266.JPG]
Posted by J. Kramer at 4:19 PM No comments:
Tuesday, February 5, 2013
On The Right Path
January 25, 2012.  An important date in our lives.  It has been one
year.  One year since Dr. Roland performed bilateral cochlear implant
urgery on our 7 month old daughter.  I’d be lying if I told you I knew
what to expect in those next 12 months.  Brian and I were confident
that we made the right decision – to go ahead with spoken language –
but what would transpire afterwards was going to be a mystery.
The next few months were like a blur…therapy, mappings, music classes,
gym classes, story times, etc.  Madison had a very busy schedule, and
we are blessed to have so many amazing people in her life – that truly
care about her well-being.
I can’t tell you when Madison started ‘talking’ as her listening (and
then comprehension) happened first.  Madison’s first word was
definitely “Al” (our dog is Alan) and she would say “Ah” and point to
her best friend.  Words then started to trickle in – “ma” then “mama”
and “da” and “dada”.
Brian and I had a meeting at CHC with her therapist, Kaitlyn, and the
director, Lois, in the beginning of November to discuss Madison’s
progress and review her upcoming goals.  We were asked to bring a list
of words/phrases that Madison understands and words that Madison
ays.  We spent a good week or two compiling the list… Just when we
thought we had completed the list, a few new words would come out of
her little mouth.  Our ‘final’ list consisted of over 125 words that
he understood and over 60 words that she actually says!  We were
amazed.  The feedback from the meeting was positive… Madison was
meeting and exceeding their expectations.  They continued to stress the
importance of exposing her to as much language as possible – read books
to her, narrate our day and just TALK.  We were told the goal for the
next 6 months would be for Madison to combine two words (action and a
noun – ie “baby down”) by the time she was two years old.  At the time,
it seemed like a stretch…
The three of us took a vacation over Thanksgiving to Argentina, and
Madison saw mountains for the first time.  Within a day, Madison was
aying “mohnt-mohnt.”  It was adorable, but at the same time we were
amazed how in just a matter of hours she was trying to describe
omething she has never ever seen before.  Looking back, we feel that
this was the beginning of her ‘language explosion.’  Typical hearing
children often go through this phase around the 18-month mark.  This is
where a child will start saying or imitating new words every day.  I
remember being told that children with a hearing loss usually don’t
have a ‘language explosion’.  Every time a new word would blurt of her
mouth it just made my heart melt.
[IMG_6063.JPG]
After returning from our travels, Madison’s therapists then began to
work on two words – “Put On/Take Off”…and my favorite “Al Move.”  Then,
exactly 1 year from her surgery she uttered a three-word sentence, “I
want more.”  We even have the footage to share!  The pronunciation
needs work, but we are just so proud of her progress.
[EMBED] video
Madison has quickly started staying 2 and 3 word phrases around the
house over the past couple of weeks.  She is starting to combine words
left and right.  Than, in music class past Saturday, she said “I want
to play” as she was pointing towards a trombone the instructor was
playing.  The mother next to me said, “Wow, that’s advanced.”  I just
looked at Madison and smiled.
Posted by J. Kramer at 5:25 PM No comments:
Wednesday, October 17, 2012
NYC Walk4Hearing
On Sunday, September 30^th we participated in the NYC Walk4Hearing.
Madison had several family members in town for the event… some even
traveling across the country to see her.  The weather held out, and we
had a nice day on Manhattan’s Upper West Side Riverside Park.  Here is
a picture of her entourage during the walk:
[IMG_5521.JPG]
A few other pics during the walk:
[IMG_5495.JPG]
Madison & Cousin Julian
[IMG_5500.JPG]
Madison & Olive
[IMG_5510.JPG]
Madison & Cochlear Koala
After the walk, Brian and I hosted a fundraiser for friends, family and
colleagues at a bar in Midtown to benefit the Center For Hearing and
Communication (CHC).  Madison receives therapy at CHC multiple times a
week, and has been going there since she was 6 weeks old.  We believe
the therapists there do a fantastic job and are so grateful for
everything they’ve done for Madison (and us).  They are able to offer
their services to children & adults and funding is provided mainly
through donations.
The fundraiser was a 2-hour event that consisted of an open bar and
appetizers for $50.  Half the cost of the event went to the bar and the
proceeds went to CHC.  In addition, we received numerous donations that
we raffled off – signed sports posters, gift cards, books, wine, hotel
tay - to name a few.  The raffle helped us raise even more money.
And we must not forget, Brian’s cousin designed T-shirts for the
festivities, which were made & donated, by Campus Connection.  All
proceeds went to CHC.
[IMG_5535.jpg] [IMG_5532.JPG]
[IMG_5537.jpg] [IMG_5536.jpg]
[IMG_5542.JPG]
All said and done, Madison raised over $10,000 that afternoon.  We are
everyone’s generosity and support during this day.
[IMG_5486.JPG]
THANK YOU EVERYONE!!!!
Posted by J. Kramer at 6:32 PM No comments:
Sunday, September 16, 2012
Busier Than Ever
We were planning on posting a "six-month hearing” update documenting
the progress of Madison last August, but the summer kept us busier than
ever.  Here are some photos from our travels.
Maryland - Baltimore National Aquarium
[IMG_5317.JPG]
Delaware - Madison & Tessa BFF <3
[IMG_5341.JPG]
Illinois - Shedd Aquarium
[IMG_5372.JPG]
Grant Park
[IMG_5387.JPG]
Our former home in Chicago
[IMG_5399.jpg]
Lincoln Park, Chicago
[IMG_5426.jpg] [IMG_5404.JPG]
[IMG_5431.JPG]
It’s truly amazing how quickly time goes by.  Last week, we had our
annual meeting with New York Early Intervention.  It was definitely
weird being back there, not to mention the meeting was held in the same
conference room as last September – Brian and I sat in the very same
eats – and surprisingly enough we were assigned the same agent!
However, while we were seated, about to get started I just started to
reminisce about the past year.  My throat began to get heavy and my
eyes began to tear up.  As I thought back to that day, goose bumps ran
down my spine.  I didn’t expect to have these feelings….  Twelve months
ago, we were sitting in this same room in a completely different state
of mind.  I don’t think Brian or I had any idea of what would transpire
over the next year.  Madison had her surgery in January, and was
activated in February.  Now, seven months post-activation we were
discussing the goals that we had set for her back in September of 2011.
Has Madison reached these goals?  How does she compare to her hearing
peers? What are our new goals?  Reflecting back, it is pretty darn
impressive how far she has come and how much she has progressed.
Madison is such a determined little girl and she continues to amaze
Brian and I every day.  But before we go into detail about her
progress, the best part of the meeting was that Madison was approved
for an increase in home-based service to twice a week with Michelle
(speech therapist through Center for Hearing and Communications).  We
are so happy about this!
So, [DEL: six :DEL] seven months into hearing, Madison has a vocabulary
of approximately 14 words:
She’s definitely doing a great job of listening and following
directions.  For example, “Madison can you pick up the block and give
it to Daddy.”  That statement has multiple commands and she is easily
able to comprehend that.
We’ve also been working on body parts with her.  She does very well
with some, but many of them involve movements (i.e. wash your ‘hands’,
kick your ‘feet’, brush your ‘teeth’).  She knows her head, ears, eyes,
nose (although sometimes this is confused with the word “NO”), teeth,
mouth, tongue, bellybutton, hands, fingers, knees, feet, toes.   She
also needs to learn where her ‘shoulder’ is, as she’s always touching
her knee, but hopefully if we sing the song enough to her, she’ll get
the hang of it.
Madison is also doing very well discriminating her sounds – “Moo” for
cow and “Quack Quack” for duck.  She even will pick up the cow and go
“Moo” or pick up a horse and make the tongue-clicking sound.  We
brought Madison to the American Museum of Natural History a few weeks
ago and she was so excited to see the elephants.  She kept making the
noise while she pointed them to us.  So cute!  There is a fire station
around the block from our apartment, so every now and then a fire truck
passes by the street.  Madison will point to her ears and let us know
he hears the sound.  She has just started imitating the sound, making
a “oooh oohhhhh ooooohhh oohhh” noise, when she plays with her toy fire
truck.
As well as Madison is doing in therapy, one of the suggestions we
received from her therapists was to expose her to children outside of
the hearing-loss community.  In the past, this was difficult to do.  I
had always wanted to enroll Madison in a play-class, but her schedule
never really allowed it.  The first year of her life, we were busy
running around taking Madison to doctor appointments, audiology visits,
therapy sessions, sound booth visits, etc  The list was endless.
Starting this fall, Madison’s schedule will finally allow for some
FUN!  Every Monday, Madison will go to CHC from 9-11 and see Kaitlyn
for speech therapy followed by a group session run by Farah.  On
Tuesdays, Madison has story time at BPC Library in the morning and in
the afternoon she has her private speech therapy with Michelle in our
home.  Wednesday rolls around and Madison heads back to CHC from 9-11,
in the afternoon she has a Gymboree class at 3pm.  This is convenient
because the location is right outside our building and will not have to
travel far come winter months.  Thursday begins with story time at
Tribeca library and Michelle in the home for a speech session.
On Fridays, Madison has Clarke group therapy in the morning, followed
by two play groups with babies in the neighborhood that afternoon.  Oh
and if her schedule isn’t busy enough… On Saturdays Madison has music
class with Brian and I.   We are glad that Madison will be able to
finally balance her time between work and play.
Madison is quite distracted with the video camera, but here is a quick
nip... Enjoy!
Madison - 14 months old:
[IMG_5305.jpg]
Madison - 15 months old:
[IMG_5470.JPG]
Posted by J. Kramer at 10:25 AM 2 comments:
Sunday, July 29, 2012
July 26, 2011
July 26, 2011… is a day that Brian and I will never forget.   The way
we view the world was going to change before us.  It was exactly one
year ago today we were told Madison has a profound hearing loss.  The
absolute WORST day of my life.  When I think back to that day, my
tomach turns, my throat starts to close up and my eyes start to tear….
I wonder at times if these feelings will always remain a part of me
when I reflect.
It was a sunny day, bright blue sky above and a warm summer breeze in
the air… we headed off to Cornell for Madison’s diagnostic ABR
testing.  My mother joined Brian and I for the appointment.  The three
of us sat in a small dark room with the audiologist.  Earphones were
placed into Madison’s tiny ears and stickers were placed on her
forehead.  Madison was in a deep sleep and did not flinch the entire
time we were in the room.  We were happy that she was so well behaved…
but deep down inside we knew that something was not right.  We were
clinging onto every moment of hope.  Little eye contact was made
between Brian, myself or my mother – we all had our eyes glued onto our
beautiful little girl…. Waiting for Madison to make a reaction to the
ounds being pumped into the earphones.  A flinch, sigh, deep breath?
Nothing.  The sounds continued to get louder and louder to the point
where we were able to hear them ourselves.  Yet Madison continued to
tay sound asleep.  All of our hope had completely vanished.  It was
only a matter of time until everything truly became a reality.  The
audiologist told us that she would be able to meet with us in 45
minutes for the results.  We were glad that we didn’t have to come back
the following day.  We strolled along the streets of the upper east
ide in Manhattan, there was little conversation… I think all of us had
the same thoughts going through our heads.
We arrived back to the office, which was down the block from where we
went for the actual testing.  The audiologist greeted us and took us
down a few hallways than brought us into a tiny room with a circular
table and three chairs.  There were three tissue boxes spaced out
across the table.  I broke down in tears and sobbed before any words
were exchanged.  I wasn’t able to  make any eye contact with Brian or
my mother.  All of us were sitting in our chairs crying.  My heart was
broken and new motherhood bliss had quickly vanished.  It felt as if
Brian and I were pushed out to sea on a tiny wooden boat (with Madison
in our arms) – leaving a sunny, white-sanded beach with calm waves –
headed towards a deep, dark storm – with no option to turn around.
When I reflect on this day, I often think about what was said during
this meeting.  I honestly do not remember any specifics.  I remember
being told that your daughter has profound hearing loss.  I remember
the audiologist showing us a chart of where most people hear, and
Madison’s hearing was nowhere; nonexistent.  I know that we asked a few
questions – what were they, well I don’t recall exactly, but I remember
that the audiologist answered ‘no’ to all of them.   I recall her
aying that many children with hearing loss develop speech equivalent
to their hearing peers with things like “hearing aids” and “cochlear
implants”.
I have learned more this past year than I have in the 30 years of my
existence.  This journey has taught me more about life than I ever
knew.  Because of it, I believe I am a stronger person.  Do I have days
where I sit and sulk? I would be lying if I said no.  But each day
things DO get better… and it DOES get easier.   Madison continues to
amaze me and I am blessed to be the mother of such a smart, loving,
beautiful little girl!   Madison is doing very well in therapy and I am
confident that she will continue to achieve all milestones that are
expected in the coming months.  We have been told that her language
(both receptive & expressive) is at that of a “normal” 12 month old
child.   Some of Madison’s first words include “Alan”, “Mama”, “Dada”,
“Milk”, “More” and “Up”.  She probably understands about 35-40 words by
now.  Not bad considering Madison has only been hearing for 5 and a
half months! I am so excited with the progress Madison is making and
can not wait to see what the rest of the year brings.
Posted by J. Kramer at 5:58 PM 2 comments:
Saturday, June 30, 2012
Madison's CHC Fundraiser
September 30th, 2012 - SAVE THE DATE
Immediately following the NYC Walk4Hearing, Brian and I will be holding
a fundraiser for Madison.   It will be held at The Junction NYC Bar &
Grill to support the Center for Hearing and Communication, a
not-for-profit organization that provides life-affirming hearing
healthcare to  over 20,000 infants, children and adults annually. The
event will be held from 1-3pm and culminates with a grand raffle.
The Junction NYC Bar & Grill
329 Lexington Ave
New York, NY 10016
(212) 682-7700
$50 per person, includes a two hour open bar, hors d'oeuvres and the
chance to win a door prize.
We will also be selling individual raffle tickets for a chance to win
autographed sports items, children's toys and other prizes.  All
proceeds to benefit The Center for Hearing and Communication.
To RSVP for this event, please view our Evite at Madison's CHC
Fundraiser.
Please check this blog posting periodically for updates.
Posted by J. Kramer at 5:29 PM No comments:
Older Posts Home
Subscribe to: Posts (Atom)
Follow by Email
____________________ Submit
Madison Elizabeth Kramer
The lovely song of “Sweet Baby Madison…” was sung to my daughter
numerous times shortly after she was born. Then, when she was 6 weeks
old, my husband Brian and I stopped singing. Being told “your daughter
is profoundly deaf in both of her ears” is probably one of the most
difficult things for us to bear as first-time parents.
Having no experience with hearing loss, we had no idea what this would
mean for our daughter and began to search for as much information that
we could find. After looking at all the options, we decided the best
thing for our daughter would be the possibility for her to receive
cochlear implants.
Brian and I created this blog to allow our family and friends to embark
on our journey to bring sound to Madison and witness different
milestones in our daughter's life. Another chapter in our life opens.
This is our journey to let Madison hear us sing to her... and
eventually, sing along with us.
Blog Archive
About Me
My Photo
J. Kramer
View my complete profile
I'd love to hear from you... Please feel free to contact me at:
weetbabymadison@gmail.com
Thank you!
Our Friends Journey's
AngelicEars
My love/hate relationship with Music - This is one of those times
where I'm hesitant to write how I really feel. My heart is beating
fast, but I've been having this nagging feeling just to get i...
4 months ago
Lone Star Family
Kendall's new Bling - Kendall gets her ears pierced! July22, 2014
We kinda of have a tradition in my family of the girls getting
their ears pierced at a young age. I'm talking...
8 months ago
OUR JOURNEY
and he's grown ... -
10 months ago
Sophia's Grace
Four Years - A few weeks ago, we took some time to celebrate
Sophie's hearing birthday. It's been four years since the cold
January morning that we referred to as "acti...
11 months ago
For the Love of Ava
One year later! - All is well here for Ava, who is now 5 and a half
and has been hearing for nearly 5 years (April). Her senior
kindergarten year has been smooth sailing...
1 year ago
I Hear That
April - "Gardens" - Taken from the toddler blog: What a fun month
we had learning in the garden. The toddlers are now experts at
catching butterflies, looking for bugs and ev...
2 years ago
Hanging With Hannah Rose
A Year Has Passed and A Bump in the Road - I like to say that a
year can make all the difference in the world. A new job, a new
boyfriend, a baby. For Hannah, it's the gift of hearing. A year
ago, ...
Olive's Ears / Les Oreilles d'Olive
Olive’s Second Implant Surgery Day April 19, 2012 / Deuxieme
Operation d’Olive le 19 Avril 2012 - On April 19, Olive received
her 2nd Cochlear implant. We arrived at the hospital bright and
early at 6:15am and checked in. Olive’s procedure was schedul...
3 years ago
Ethan Miller
A Few New Videos - A couple of new videos for your viewing
pleasure. First, we have our stud athlete. By the looks of it he
could already start for the Mets (I'm sorry, but t...
ALAN. Watermark template. Powered by Blogger.
