
Sophia's Grace
This is the story of a special little girl, Sophia, and her journey
into the hearing world!
Pages
Saturday, January 31, 2015
Four Years
A few weeks ago, we took some time to celebrate Sophie's hearing
birthday. It's been four years since the cold January morning that we
referred to as "activation day" forever changed our lives. Initially,
our early CI days were full of hard work, intense therapy, and lots of
audiology appointments. Although we are still on an ever-evolving
journey with a deaf child, life is quite different now. Our days no
longer center around CIs and therapy and instead our biggest worries
are consistent with those of parents of typical children. Sophie's
language skills are pretty amazing and people are often surprised when
they learn of her hearing loss.
For this year's hearing celebration, we spent time with family and
Sophie chose her favorite dinner of quesadillas and ice cream cake. We
also took a trip to a local children's museum and had a day of fun. I
took a short video of her, similar to the one I posted last year. I
hope to "interview" her each year on her hearing birthday; at least
until she will no longer let me. :) Here's to four years!
IFRAME:
http://www.youtube.com/embed/fDcMUBbAWZk?feature=player_embedded
Posted by Emily at 1/31/2015 04:07:00 PM 2 comments:
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Saturday, January 3, 2015
Perspective
It's hard to admit that an entire year has come and gone since I last
posted here. It's not that I haven't had any news to write about or
have been too busy (although life is quite busy these days), I guess I
just haven't felt like it. This past year has been an emotional
roller-coaster for me and my family, as we lost my mother to cancer. It
wasn't really a roller-coaster; it was more free fall, with us
desperately trying to grasp onto tiny bits of hope for a few short
months although we knew the finality of what we were facing in the end.
Cancer sucks, folks. There is nothing more ruthless, unforgiving, and
consuming. And it's just not fair.
As I continue to grieve and slowly start to heal,  I am able to
recognize one thing that this life experience has helped me with
- perspective. Attitude, point-of-view, outlook on life... Whatever you
want to call it. When Sophie was born and we had gotten over the
initial shock and anger of learning about her hearing loss, I thought I
had gained a new perspective on what is really important in life. At
the time, it was the most difficult obstacle I had encountered and I
felt shaken and changed by it, in a good way though. This past year has
been even more eye-opening and I can honestly say that I have a deeper
appreciation for everything I have and everyone that has been by my
ide. I'm not saying that I owe this deeper appreciation to cancer or
even admitting that anything positive has come from this terrible
experience.  I just think it's important to recognize how tragedy molds
us into different people than we were before. We are humbled by hard
times and grow stronger because of them.
So with the start of this new year, I will be trying my hardest to
focus on my new perspective and everything I am grateful for. I have
plenty of updates to share about Sophie and her sweet little brother
and I will post those soon.
Cheers to a new year and a new outlook.
Posted by Emily at 1/03/2015 10:21:00 PM 2 comments:
Sunday, January 12, 2014
Three Years of Hearing!!
I think it's safe to say that's it has been some time since my last
post! Life has been a whirlwind lately and I don't see it calming down
anytime soon. In the last six months I have had a baby, started a new
job, moved into a new home, and have been navigating through the trials
and tribulations of a serious family illness. Life is busy, to say the
least.
In the midst of all the craziness, we took some time last week to
celebrate Sophie's hearing birthday! It's been three years since her
implants were activated and she first heard the amazing sounds of the
world. She has achieved so much in just a few years and I can only
imagine what else she is going to accomplish as she gets older.
Activation day brought us so much hope and excitement, but I never
would have guessed how much she would excel. When I look back and
reflect on our journey, it is pretty surreal. One of the best parts of
parenting such a special child is sharing our story with others and
giving them hope. If I had only known where we would be today, those
early days would have been much easier and my tears would have been
aved for another day.
Here is a little clip of our girl, just three years in to her journey.
Isn't it amazing?
[EMBED]
Posted by Emily at 1/12/2014 10:38:00 PM 2 comments:
Wednesday, July 17, 2013
Introducing...
Our newest addition, a little BOY!!!
[David_Newborn-47.jpg]
David Ryan
7/5/2013
8 pounds, 14 ounces
Needless to say, he has captured our hearts and we are in love!
Everyone is adjusting quite well as a new family of four and Sophie is
a great big sister. She wants to hold and kiss him constantly and help
with everything having to do with her new little brother.
Unlike his big sister, David can hear. While most people are delighted
when we share this news, it is extremely bittersweet to me. For many
reasons, this feeling is hard to explain and I think only a fellow
hearing loss mom may fully understand. To me, Sophie is absolutely
perfect and such a special little girl. Some may consider her deafness
a flaw or a burden, but I think it makes her even more amazing.
Although we feel a bit of relief that David's early years will not be
pent juggling therapy appointments, it feels wrong to rejoice that he
lacks the trait making Sophie so special to us. Also, a part of me
would like her to have someone to share her struggles with as she gets
older - someone who understands what it is like to be deaf. I know that
one day soon she will ask me about David's ears and wonder if he will
also be getting implants. These questions are easy to answer now
because she is only three, but I know they will become harder in the
future.
One thing I am certain of as a type this update - I will love and
treasure both of these kiddos with all of my heart for the rest of my
life. They are both special and I know they will encounter individual
and unique struggles, hearing or not.
[David_Newborn-11.jpg]
﻿
Posted by Emily at 7/17/2013 01:36:00 PM 5 comments:
Monday, May 27, 2013
A graduate?! Already?
Yes, folks - it's true. On Friday, Sophie GRADUATED from the Moog
Center for Deaf Education. Quite an accomplishment for a profoundly
deaf child who just recently turned three years old. While we are
over-the-moon excited, happy, and proud, it was also a sad day to close
this chapter of our journey.
I'll never forget my first conversation with the director of the Moog
Center. She contacted me just two days after we learned that Sophie is
deaf. I was still grieving - in a mixed state of panic, confusion, and
hock. What I remember most about our conversation is that she was so
incredibly confident that Sophie would be okay.  She gave me the
traight-forward facts about hearing loss and the potential causes,
ummarized the cochlear implant process and timeline, and told me about
their intensive oral program. At one point, I remember her
matter-of-factly saying, "Oh yeah, there is a great chance Sophie can
be mainstreamed by kindergarten." That statement gave me instant hope
and was the very faint glimmer of light that I needed to snap out of my
ad, gloomy haze and take action. Up until that point, when I
envisioned Sophie's future, I could only think of a world of special
education, interpreters, and limitations. I had already researched a
bit about cochlear implants, but I was still naive and ignorant to what
a diagnosis of profound hearing loss meant for Sophie.
The next day was our first visit to the Moog Center. It was surreal. As
we pushed our tiny baby girl through the halls and classrooms in her
troller, I remember thinking, "Wow, they really weren't kidding. These
kids can talk!" But that wasn't even the best part of the visit.
After being scared, helpless, and overwhelmed, I just felt normal
while we were there. It was as though the hurricane had stopped
pounding and the debris was starting to settle all around me. Like I
could envision a new path and future that I so recently was unsure of.
After our visit, I was pretty much sold. We visited another oral school
in the St. Louis area as well, but there was no comparison to the
feelings of hope and support that the Moog Center gave us. In the past
three years, this amazing school has been by our side constantly -
providing encouragement and support every step along the way. The
taff, audiologists, and teachers are more to us than the professionals
that have guided Sophie's success, they are forever a part of her
journey and our family.
So here we are now, saying goodbye. Obviously, this transition is
happening much sooner than we anticipated and I still cannot believe
Sophie is being mainstreamed two years earlier than our original goal.
While I'm nervous and anxious, I'm confident that Sophie's time at Moog
has equipped her for a regular classroom on a full time basis. She is
uch a bright girl and has amazed us each and every step of the way so
far. At this point, I can't wait to see what else she has in store for
us. ;)
How fast her time at Moog has gone by:
[DSCN2774.JPG]
First day of Moog - 17 months old
[DSC03504.JPG]
Last day of Moog - 3 years old
Here are a few more pictures of Sophie's big day:
[DSC03518.JPG]
Singing with her class
[DSC03521.JPG]
All alone on stage - brave girl!
[DSC03524.JPG]
Sophie and the other graduates
[DSC03534.JPG]
We love Moog!
[20130524_111055.jpg]
Such a bittersweet day
[DSC03546.JPG]
The first of many amazing achievements for this girl
My dad also filmed Sophie being "interviewed" during graduation. All of
the children leaving the Moog Center take the stage to tell their story
and this is always a very emotional part of the program, as many
families have moved across the country and completely started new lives
to attend school here. Obviously, Sophie is a little young to be able
to share her story, but she took the stage and it was pretty cute. I
could tell she was nervous and I was quite surprised she spoke at all
in front of that many people!
Let's hope that habit of pulling up her dress when nervous doesn't
continue for too long! ;)
Anyway, we are on to a new chapter soon. We are so proud and can't wait
to see what preschool holds for Sophie. Although we are sad to be
leaving Moog, everyone there assures us that she is ready and will do
great. Here's to new adventures!
Posted by Emily at 5/27/2013 05:48:00 PM No comments:
Monday, April 22, 2013
Constant entertainment
There isn't much point to this video I'm posting below, other than the
fact that it makes me smile and could be a source of instant
embarrassment 10 years from now. I've found that one of the great
things about parenting a three year old is that my life is filled with
enseless humor! Sophie is a constant goofball nowadays, always acting
illy and trying to play tricks. I love it!
Posted by Emily at 4/22/2013 08:06:00 PM 2 comments:
Saturday, March 30, 2013
Happy 3rd Birthday!!!
Sophie turned three last week and we had fun celebrating for days! We
were also hit with over a foot of snow, so her birthday party had to be
postponed a few days, but we had a great time anyway. Here are a few
pictures from the festivities:
[DSC02608.JPG]
Excited to take birthday treats to school!
[DSC02713.JPG]
Circus fun! The fireman clown wears implants, too!
[DSC02735.JPG]
Cheese!
[DSC02768.JPG]
Birthday party!
[DSC02816.JPG]
A great addition to her new room!
[DSC02830.JPG]
Yum!
[DSC02858.JPG]
Sugar rush
[DSC02894.JPG]
So proud to be three!
I can't believe we have a three-year-old on our hands now. These days
are certainly fun, though! Sophie is learning new things at a rapid
pace and I feel like I can hardly keep up with her.
Happy 3rd Birthday to my sweet girl! I am so proud of you!!!
Posted by Emily at 3/30/2013 03:05:00 PM No comments:
Older Posts Home
Subscribe to: Posts (Atom)
ABOUT SOPHIA
Sophia was born March 26, 2010 and failed her newborn hearing
creening. She was diagnosed with severe to profound hearing loss in
both ears when she was just 4 weeks old. Her hearing loss is
non-syndromic and is caused by a mutation in the Connexin gene. Sophia
received bilateral cochlear implants in December 2010 at 8 months of
age and was activated one month later. The purpose of this blog is to
journal her progress and share my feelings throughout our journey. I
also hope this blog can help ease another parent's mind, as many blogs
have eased mine.
ABOUT ME
My Photo
Emily
St. Louis, MO, United States
I am a first-time mom to sweet Sophia and wife to an amazing
husband, Jared. I am determined, passionate, stubborn, and
omewhat of a closet control freak. I work full-time and spend
my free time with my wonderful little family and being an
advocate for our little girl.
View my complete profile
Email:
I'd love to hear from you! Feel free to contact me at:
ophiasgrace@hotmail.com
BLOG ARCHIVE
SOPHIA'S VISITORS
THANKS FOR FOLLOWING!
POPULAR POSTS
Search Sophia's Grace:
Loading...
Want to follow our story? Enter your email address below! :)
____________________ Submit
BLOGS I FOLLOW:
{good but hard}
twinkle twinkle
4 weeks ago
Cochlear Kids
11 Years of Hearing
3 months ago
AngelicEars
My love/hate relationship with Music
4 months ago
Lone Star Family
Kendall's new Bling
8 months ago
OUR JOURNEY
and he's grown ...
10 months ago
Turn On My Ears!
Progress Report - 2nd Grade
Life with Lucas
ROAR!
1 year ago
Krull Family 5
I'm Back
Cacophony to Symphony
CI Love
Tayten Matthew
Reading Machine
That's Just the Way We Hear
2 Years
For the Love of Ava
One year later!
Isabel's Journey
2 years ago
The amazing Miss M
Another year on
SWEET BABY MADISON
2 Years Old
I Hear That
April - "Gardens"
Olivia, Sophia, and Victoria
Blog is Closed
Profoundly Seth
Happy Sixth Birthday, Eli
Evynn Reese
Catching Up!
Savannahs Journey
2 year Assessment
3 years ago
Ella's Journey to Hear the World
Video of Please.
Sienna's Journey
Our family trip to Edmonton!
~~Hearing for AUBREY ~~The Winans Family:)
4 years ago
Loving Lily
Lily's Brother and a New Blog Address
5 years ago
Facebook Badge
Emily P
[100000242331274.1972.1943425205.png]
Create Your Badge
HealthBlogger Network
Hearing Loss & Deafness Community
Wellsphere
Simple template. Template images by merrymoonmary. Powered by Blogger.
