
kip to main | skip to sidebar
For the Love of Ava
Ava's exciting journey to the hearing world!
[event.png]
Wednesday, February 12, 2014
One year later!
[DSC_0004.JPG]
All is well here for Ava, who is now 5 and a half and has been hearing
for nearly 5 years (April).  Her senior kindergarten year has been
mooth sailing; especially since she received her personal FM system
last year.  She is seeing her TOD twice a week and with her TOD she has
been working on developing a brochure that demonstrates the steps to
attach her receivers and activate her personal FM system.  At this
tage, Ava is learning how to identify the various parts of her
cochlear implant and indicate when her cochlear implant and FM system
are not giving a clear signal.  Self-advocacy is a very important skill
to have and it is practiced over and over at school.  This will give
her the confidence to speak up when she cannot hear something at
chool.  She is also creating a power point presentation "All about Me"
which will be presented to her classmates in April.  She is very
excited about her projects and enjoys her time with Mrs. Manocchio, her
wonderful TOD.  Ava is enjoying a very active social life, attending
numerous birthday parties, ballet and hip-hop classes as well as a
weekly gymnastics class.  And we just signed her up for summer soccer!
Ava just received her latest progress report card and I am proud to
announce that she has met ALL expectations for a kindergartener.  Even
better, she is reading well above grade level.  I find that many of our
CI kiddoes who were identified early and implanted at a young age, do
extremely well in reading.  This gives them a great foundation to carry
through-out their school age years.  In addition, her TOD reports that
he continues to have developmentally appropriate speech and language.
Yippee!
I notice that most of my other CI momma friends are also blogging much
less frequently.  Most likely due to the normalcy of our lives, which
was what we all hoped and prayed for when we first received our child's
diagnosis of profound deafness.  I honestly could not be happier with
Ava's continued successes and she has exceeded all of my expectations.
Cheers!
[DSC_0037.JPG]
Posted by Amy at 7:38 PM No comments:
Friday, March 1, 2013
Still Here/Hear! Travelling, Reading and FM Systems
[IMG_0067.jpg]
Waiting for our plane to arrive
My older daughter pointed out last week that I haven't blogged since
October!  I really didn't have much to blog about that would really
interest anybody.  However, I have lots of news and new experiences I
would love to share.
TRAVELLING WITH COCHLEAR IMPLANTS
My husband and I travelled with Lauren and Ava to Mexico last month.
It was Ava's first airplane trip with her CI's.  I put all of Ava's CI
tuff in my carry-on:  charger, zephyr drying box, personal audio
cable, rechargeable and disposable batteries, remote.  I didn't say
anything to the security staff.  Just left it all in my carry-on bag
and it went through the x-ray machines no problem.  Ava walked through
the security x-ray no problem either. I didn't point out her CI's or
anything.  I had her CI identity cards with me in case they asked about
her equipment but they did not.  (I have never had to inform security
about my hearing aids/accessories before so I didn't feel the need to
bring up Ava's CI's.  While on the plane, Ava was able to listen to the
aircraft's radio using Cochlear's personal audio cable.  She also was
able to watch movies on the iPad using the personal audio cable which
connects her processor directly to the iPad.   Lauren has the music
links by tech ear for her hearing aids so she was able to watch the
movies together with Ava using the same port (my husband bought a dual
earphone splitter from Best Buy so they could both hear the movie at
the same time using their different devices).
[IMG_0074.jpg]
Ava listening to music with her
Personal Audio Cable
[IMG_0078.jpg]
Ava checking out emergency
flight procedures
[IMG_1891.jpg]
Getting ready to snorkel
[IMG_1808.JPG]
Chillaxin with a virgin strawberry daiquiri
[IMG_1910.JPG]
Girls with their new braids
The trip was fantastic.  Ava snorkeled out to the reef with us (we
practiced in the pool first), swam and played at the waterpark.  We
left one of her processors on at the water park - she splashed about,
went down the waterslides, dunked her head in the water and even stood
under waterfalls with no problem leaving the processor on.  We fastened
the cable to her hair using a claw-like clip so that the processor
wouldn't fall off and get lost.  We plan to purchase Cochlear's
waterproof bags this summer for swimming in the pool.  Hopefully she
will be more receptive to this as she didn't like using the aLoksak
bags.  Ava also wanted to get her hair braided.  She had the half head
version so that her coils would still be able to stay on her head.
AVA IS READING!
[IMG_0082.jpg]
Ava's  Student of the Month photo
Ava is doing very well with her reading.  A video clip of her reading
is HERE .    I am so proud of her!  In the clip she keeps asking me if
I'm "taking her picture" as she doesn't like to be photographed.  While
I'm taping her with my cellphone, I had to keep reassuring her I wasn't
taking a picture (ok, I was taking a video, not a photo - not the same
thing - if I admitted I was videotaping her, she never would have read
for me on camera - so yes I sheepishly admit, I had to tell my daughter
a "little white lie" to get her to read on film)
AVA AT SCHOOL - FM SYSTEMS
Ava has been struggling to hear in her new all-day kindergarten
classroom.  Her classroom is the worst possible imaginable set-up for a
child with a hearing loss.  Her school built a new addition to
accommodate three new full-day kindergarten classes of 90 children.
These three classrooms are side by side and separated merely by a wall
between each of them that does not meet the ceiling.  There are no
doors separating these classrooms from one another.  It is a total
acoustical nightmare.  When one class is singing, the other class will
join in.  With Ava's classroom being the middle room sandwiched between
two outer classes totalling 60 rambunctious 4 and 5 year olds, the
background noise coming in from both classrooms into Ava's room is
overwhelming.  The hearing kids even struggle to stay focused.  Ava
received a soundfield at the beginning of the school year but it just
was not working well enough for her.  Her TOD saw all the signs that
he was not hearing well.  She would tune out during story time and was
not participating in class discussions.  She could not follow teacher
instructions and seemed lost, uninterested and distracted.  There were
also some slight behaviour concerns.  And Ava was absolutely miserable
and exhausted by the day's end.   I did some research and felt that Ava
would benefit greatly from a personal FM system.  I had my reservations
about a personal FM system for Ava since she is only 4 years old and
would not be a good reporter if something were to go wrong with the FM.
I also had reservations about using the MYlink neckloop system, which
is favoured by the school board since it's cost-effective.  The MYlink
neckloop can be wonky, Ava hates having her telecoils switched on as
he cannot stand the constant buzzing sound from electro-magnetic
interference and I was worried about safety with having something
around her neck that can be whacked at other kids or pulled on by 29
little kindergarteners in her class.  We had a meeting at the school
with the Vice-Principal, TOD, Ava's classroom teacher and the
educational audiologist to discuss solutions for Ava.  I wanted Ava to
receive Phonak's ML14i receivers which are WAY better than the neckloop
ystem.  I armed myself with research supporting the benefits of the
receivers vs. neck loop - some of the advantages are: no
electromagnetic interference buzzing, better sound quality, better
peech intelligibility in noise, better dynamic capability and better
ignal to noise ratio than the neck loop.  You just plug the small
receivers into her processors and that's it.  No remote to fuss with.
However, the receivers are more expensive than the neck loop system.
It just so happened that the educational audiologist had in her office
two ML14i receivers on hand and Ava could have them! The following
week, the board audiologist and Ava's TOD came to the school with the
new receivers.  It took some coaxing for Ava to agree to let them touch
her processors, let alone wear the receivers.  But after some bribery
and little tricks, Ava finally let them put the receivers on.  Let me
tell you that a couple hours later, Ava's teacher personally called me
on the phone with these words..."I don't believe it but it's like you
have a different child....." Ava participated in the classroom
discussion, answered questions, was totally focused during story time
etc etc.  I was so freaking relieved.  And to think of what she has
missed these last 6 months of school.  I should note that Ava remains
on par with her peers academically; but had we left things the way they
were, she surely would have fallen behind both academically and
ocially.  We can now breathe a little easier and sleep at night rest
assured that finally, she can hear at school.
Posted by Amy at 3:32 PM No comments:
Wednesday, October 31, 2012
Happy Halloween!
[554138_10151889257040110_27412987_n.jpg]  Happy Halloween!
Ava just received her new Skin-its for her processors!  We are really
happy with them.  The skins fit both the regular length and compact
rechargeable batteries.
[DSC_0020.JPG]
When Ava removed her processors tonight, she put them both together
like this and said "look mommy, my CI's make a heart".  I love that
kid!
[DSC_0021.JPG]
Posted by Amy at 8:53 PM No comments:
Tuesday, September 25, 2012
Ava starts Kindergarten!
[Ava+uniform8_n.jpg]
Ava in her uniform
Ava started Kindergarten this month.  It has been going super well.  I
had some reservations as Ava's school implemented a full day program
for the first time which meant she would be in a class of 30 noisy
three and four year olds together with one teacher and one early
childhood educator (E.C.E.).  This, coupled with the fact that her
classroom is openly connected to two other noisy 30 kid full day
Kindergarten classrooms, made me worry that noise would be an issue.
We decided before school started that she would benefit from a
oundfield system in her classroom and this has made things oh so much
better for her.  Both the teacher and ECE wear the transmitter and they
alternate between the two of them who would be doing the teaching as
they both cannot be on the system simultaneously.  They have worked
this out very well between the two of them.  Also, the soundfield is
portable and it is brought to the gym and worn by the gym teacher.  The
proof that the soundfield is working well for Ava is how she comes home
day after day demonstrating the new songs she learns at school; how she
remembers the lyrics and has a pretty good articulation of the songs.
She blew my socks off with her near perfect rendition of our national
anthem "Oh Canada" last week.  She is making lots of new friends but
lucked out with having her best friend from pre-school placed in her
classroom (one of the perks of having a child with a disability).  Her
compact rechargeable batteries last throughout the school day but we
find that they run out of power a bit sooner now thus we are changing
her batteries at about 6pm daily.   Her itinerant TOD comes in once a
week to make sure the soundfield is working efficiently and spends time
with Ava in the classroom to get a feel of how things are going for
her, and to see whether the classroom needs any further modifications
to reduce noise.  Soon, Ava will be pulled out of her class once a week
to work one on one with the TOD.  One of the projects they will work on
is introducing her cochlear implants to her classmates.  Cochlear
Corporation apparently has colouring books that we can order which Ava
can give to her class while she is doing her presentation.
There are a couple exciting products for cochlear implants that I am
dying to share:
SKIN-ITS - I've ordered Ava "skins" which are custom made for her
Nucleus 5 processors.  I can't wait to get my hands on them.  She is so
excited.  She picked out a Hello Kitty design.  Her brown processors
are so.....boring and look like, well, like medical devices.  The
kin-its will certainly give her CI's character and I'm sure her
classmates will be sooooo jealous :)
WATERPROOF BAGS for Nucleus 5's. - Cochlear Corporation (finally) came
up with their own solution to waterproofing the Nucleus 5.  A custom
made waterproof ziploc-type single use bag so Ava can wear her
processors on her ear and go SWIMMING.  Click here  for a picture of
the bag.  From what I can tell, Ava will still have to utilize a swim
cap given the fact she dives in 8 feet of water for pool sticks.  Ava
was not a fan of swim caps so we will see if she will be receptive to
wearing the new bag.  Certainly a step in the right direction by
Cochlear and I trust we will see a fully waterproof processor in the
near future!  The bags are available in Canada (yay for us) but are
just awaiting FDA approval.
Posted by Amy at 2:34 PM 2 comments:
Thursday, August 9, 2012
Summer Camp! (and another speech sample)
[DSC_0003.JPG]
Ava has been spending a few weeks this summer doing full day camp
programs.  She will be starting full day kindergarten this fall.  She
has adjusted extremely well being away all day.  The last two weeks,
he has been doing the gymnastics program.  She really loves it.  I
keep her processors on using wig-tape and I secure her cables to her
hair using little mini hair clips (the claw type ones with the spring).
Also, I screwed her magnets in a little closer to her head so that the
coils wouldn't pop off so easily.  This worked really well for her.
I really love how they teach the kids new songs at camp.  In the past,
when Ava would learn a new song at school, I would have to practice
with her at home to make sure she has her articulation down pat.  She
would often mispronounce some of the lyrics; especially new vocabulary.
Yesterday she came home from camp having learned the "Doggie Doggie
Who's Got the Bone" song.   I was SO impressed that she learned the
whole thing in one day.  With the exception of a couple of words, she
did really well with it.  She was so dang cute I just have to share it
with you!
[EMBED] video
Posted by Amy at 9:16 AM 2 comments:
Monday, August 6, 2012
Meeting Rachel!
Today was an extra special day for us, definitely one of the highlights
of my year.
Let me tell you why.
[DSC_0032.jpg]
Rachel and Ava
A few years ago,  while in the midst of shedding tears  trying to get
my hands on ANYTHING I could find out about deafness and cochlear
implants for Ava, who had just been diagnosed as profoundly deaf, I
came across this amazing blog "Cochlearimplantonline.com".  The creator
of that blog, is Rachel Chaikof.  Rachel is a young woman who is deaf
and has bilateral cochlear implants.  She was implanted at the age of 3
in 1989 and was one of the first children to be implanted in the U.S.
Rachel is a success story.  She excelled in school, mastered the french
language, received numerous academic awards, became a poster child for
Better Hearing and Speech Month, graduated Summa Cum Laude from the
Savannah College of Art and Design and works as Community Engagement
Manager for a company that provides an on-line platform for
corporations managing community involvement.  You can read more about
Rachel's accomplishments here.
Today, we were super excited because we got to meet Rachel in person.
My husband and I were in awe of her.  She is the whole package -
intelligent, articulate and beautiful.  My husband got to talk about US
politics with her and I got to talk to her about FM systems,
her experiences as a college student living in residence and learn
things about the functions on Ava's processors that will come in handy
when she is older.
[DSC_0038.jpg]
And Ava, went to bed tonight, excitedly chatting about her afternoon
with Rachel "who has CI's like me Mommy!"
Rachel, thank you from the bottom of our heart, for doing what you do.
For reaching out to the 70,000 people per month who read your blog, a
place where one can learn all he or she needs to know about  hearing
loss and cochlear implants.  For your tireless efforts to spread
awareness about hearing loss.  And especially for taking the time to
meet Ava.  There really is no better role model, than you!
[DSC_0035.jpg]
﻿
Posted by Amy at 10:29 PM 2 comments:
Friday, June 22, 2012
Ava has graduated from Pre School!
[DSC_0211.JPG]
Ava graduated from Pre School yesterday! I can't believe the year is
over.  She had a fantastic year at Silver Creek Pre School.  She met
all of her language goals and we couldn't be more proud.  She blossomed
ocially and made a ton of friends.  She was so eager to participate in
anything and everything, especially  "Show and Share".   She was always
uper excited to go to school each day.
[DSC_0130.JPG]
Ava receiving her diploma from her teachers Sueann and Tahlia
Earlier this week, I attended a Case Conference with the administrators
of Ava's new school where she will be attending Kindergarten this
September.  At this meeting, it was determined what supports Ava will
receive at her new mainstream school.  She will receive a Soundfield
ystem, weekly intervention with her d/hh itinerant teacher, in-service
for the staff on cochlear implants,  her classroom will have the
appropriate modifications made to reduce background noise such as hush
ups on the chairs.  Her existing IEP will be carried through to the new
chool and adjusted in the fall.  While her articulation is improving,
it is still not quite age-appropriate in terms of when she is speaking
in sentences.  There is still work ahead of us in making sure she
continues to progress with her language and not fall behind.  We will
miss having her weekly TOD visits which were chock full of therapy.  In
fact I plan to make an appointment with her auditory verbal therapist
to have an assessment done to see exactly where she is at and from this
arm ourselves with some goals to work on for the summer.  With our deaf
kiddos, we always have to be on top of things and work ahead whenever
possible as it is so easy for them to fall behind at school.
Attached is a video clip of Ava reading some words.
Posted by Amy at 8:52 PM No comments:
Older Posts Home
Subscribe to: Posts (Atom)
Welcome!
Ava was born June 30, 2008 and diagnosed with profound bilateral
ensorineural hearing loss in September, 2008. She received
imultaneous bilateral cochlear implants when she was 9 months old on
March 31, 2009. Today she is 6 years old and is on par with her hearing
peers of in terms of auditory comprehension and expressive language. I
want to give parents of newly diagnosed babies with profound hearing
loss HOPE.
About Me
My Photo
Amy
I am married to a talented children's musician husband and
together we enjoy seven unique and beautiful children. I
"retired" as a corporate/commercial law clerk to stay at home
with the kids. I love golf, gourmet cooking, jazz and ballet
dancing and dates with my husband.
View my complete profile
Some Pictures
Favourite Links
hearing
Cochlear Implant Accessories
Ava's Spoken Words and Approximations
One Month Hearing
"Hi" - 05/09
"Uh-Oh" - 05/09
"uh" (up) - 05/09
Six Weeks Hearing
"mamama & rarara" babbling
"ah un" (all done)
"Moo"
Two months Hearing
"or" (more)
"bah bah" (for the sheep)
tongue clicking (for the horse)
bye bye
"bah boo" (for daddy)
ma ma (for mommy)
Four Months Hearing
poo poo (with the "p" sound too!)
"ea ee" (ready)
up
apple
eye
Five Months Hearing (all approximations except Boo Boo)
bread
head
flower
Boo Boo (her teddy bear's name)
meow
ock
milk
don't touch (two words together!)
ice cream
Six months plus hearing
hat
down
Elmo
daddy
no
nose
cheese
yogurt
tick tock
boo (for blue)
hair
grandma
purpo (purple)
een (for green)
eh wo (yellow)
Questions:
"Where's ________" (insert common object)
"What Happened?" (with such feeling too!)
Names of all siblings
Body parts: eyes, ears, toes, nose,
elbow, legs, arms, knees, neck,
teef (teeth)
cereal
poon (spoon)
pants
diaper
hoes
boots
mittens
coat
brush teef
"want ______ (insert object)
cracker
keekee (cookie)
Ava's Comrades
AJ's Awesome Adventure
Her First Year
1 week ago
Good but Hard
twinkle twinkle
4 weeks ago
Jazzie and Tahlia
More backtracking
3 months ago
Lone Star Family
Kendall's new Bling
8 months ago
OUR JOURNEY
and he's grown ...
10 months ago
Turn On My Ears!
Progress Report - 2nd Grade
Life with Lucas
ROAR!
1 year ago
Ordinary Miracles
Pinterest Fails: Fizzing Paint
That's Just the Way We Hear
2 Years
The amazing Miss M
Another year on
2 years ago
SWEET BABY MADISON
2 Years Old
No Peas
Almost One Year Later...
Savannahs Journey
2 year Assessment
3 years ago
Amelia' s Journey
...........time to say good bye
Buzz's Journey - to hearing and beyond
Disney 2012
Sienna's Journey
Our family trip to Edmonton!
Landry Olivia Agnich
Locations of visitors to this page
HealthBlogger Network
Amy D.
Hearing Loss and Deafness Community
Wellsphere
Followers
Blog Archive
Facebook Badge
Amy Ehrhardt De Domenico
[702325109.3644.824459500.png]
Create Your Badge
Feedjit
Feedjit Live Blog Stats
Ava's Song
[EMBED]
[801.gif]
Make photo slide shows at www.OneTrueMedia.com
Free Hit Counter
Lexmark Inkjet Printers
