
kip to main | skip to sidebar
.
New Year, New Outlook
We are just getting started on Brinley's journey...
Dec 2009 we got the diagnosis of profound bilateral hearing loss.
English Terms: Brinley is deaf.
I'll be documenting Brinley's progress every step of the way. This will
be my outlet in getting my thoughts on paper (well, computer) and maybe
you will get something out of this too. You will learn what it means to
be deaf, possibly be inspired to pick up a few sign language books or
next time you see a child with hearing aids or Cochlear Implants you
will know what it took for that child to get where he/she is today.
Modern technology is amazing!
Brinleys Video's
Loading...
"HARD DOES NOT MEAN IMPOSSIBLE"
Brinley Shay Reiswig
Sisterhood
If we only knew then what we know now...
[EMBED]
ALL SMILES WITH MY HEARING AIDS
Mommy's Angel
My Favorite Links
Upcoming Appointments
Jan 7th, Modesto
2:30pm Meeting with MCS/ SCOE Early Start Eval.
Jan 15th, Oakland
9:00am Speech Therapist Apt
10:00am Family Psycologist Apt
2:30pm First Audiologist Apt with Sara
3:30pm Meeting Dr. Murray, Implant Surgeon
Jan 29th, Oakland - Sedated CT Scan
Stanford here we come!
Feb 9th Meet Surgeon Dr. Blevins, get surgery date
Monday March 29th, 5 hr Surgery at Stanford
Activation 4/20 and 4/21
Follow up 5/17 and 5/18
Tuesday, January 14, 2014
Today's the day
[brinstar.jpg]
True definition of Rockstar.
Years of speech,traveling and assessments have all brought us to this
day. With a happy heart today is Brinley's last day at the Deaf and
Hard of Hearing preschool.
When we made the move to Socal last summer she was attending 5 days a
week. She made quick progress. Before we knew it she dropped to 3 days
a week at DHH. We enrolled her in our local CDC Full-Time Preschool the
other 2 days. It's always been extremely important to us that Brinley
gets her role modeling from "like hearing peers." Putting her in this
environment was scary at first not knowing how she was going to juggle
going to two different schools who had two very different set of
rules.
She flourished.And adjusted.And was happy.
At the start of the new 2013 school year went switched it up again, 2
days at DHH and 3 days in mainstreamed preschool.
[brinleyslastday.jpg]
As parents we struggled with moving her from the DHH program, after
all she's deaf. Her friends there either have cochlear implants or
hearing aids so Brinley wouldn't be so different. It's safe. She
felt safe.Or was it we felt safe as parents knowing she wouldn't be
My last visit to her DHH class left me with questions. Brinley had
taken on a motherly role to the other children. Her language had
urpassed her other classmates so she evolved into a helper for the
maller children. The classmates were using Brinley as a role model.
Brinley WAS and IS different, even at DHH. What was a good fit a year
ago isn't necessarily a good fit now.
Last report card from Brin's mainstreamed class
Brinley exceeded expectations in key areas:
Relationships with peers and adults
Seeing diversity in herself and others
Empathy
Problem Solving
Social Development
Fine Motor Skills
Writing
Spelling
Speech:
Above Satisfactory
Brinley is flourishing.And adjusting.And is happy.
[last+day.jpg]
This morning we walked to the bus stop for the last time.
We live in a great new city
with a school district that has far surpassed all our expectations
Her future looks bright!
[brinbusride.jpg]
Posted by Shandra Reiswig at 10:03 AM 2 comments:
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Thursday, March 14, 2013
Bubble Bath & Progress
Last night was great. While giving Brinley a bath I had a full on
conversation with her. She's understanding more and more with each day.
I tried to video a little on my cell phone. I'm repeating back
everything she's saying so she hears it twice.
-It's progress-
April 20th, 2013 will mark 3 years of hearing. Something to celebrate!
CLICK HERE TO VIEW-----> http://youtu.be/9KwF1Ss8u3k
Posted by Shandra Reiswig at 8:40 AM No comments:
Wednesday, January 9, 2013
What a "doll"
Another year behind us!
So much has happened since our big move to LA.
One big recent event? Brinley turned 4!
[photo+1.JPG]
The sun peeked out just long enough for the kids to play outside.
What a fun party American Girl Doll party we had with a bouncy house,
tons of crafts and last but not least some great friends.
[photo+5.JPG]
[9.JPG]
[photo.JPG]
A little update on Brinley:
She is attending a Deaf and Hard of Hearing Preschool 3 days a week and
recently transitioned into a mainstreamed Preschool the other 2 days a
week. Of course I was a little concerned with how she would adjust to
hearing peers but her teachers comforting words last week were music to
my ears!
According to her Brinley is doing amazing. She jumps right in to try
omething new, a great listener, follows directions and makes friends
easily. Last week a litte boy was in class sitting in the corner crying
because he didn't want to put his shoes on. No idea what the
circumstances were but I guess the Mom gave up fighting and sent him
barefoot with shoes in backpack. Brinley's teacher said Brin walked
over to the boy, grabbed his shoes and tried to put them on over her
hoes...then started losing her balance and falling down on purpose
and giggling . She did this 3 or 4 times until the boy started laughing
hysterically and what do you know...He put on his shoes and followed
Brin out to the playground.
It's moments like these that capture my heart.
Brinley is goofy.
Whinny at times.
Sly.
Smart as a fox.
Empathetic.
Determined.
Sweet as pie.
Mommy and Daddy are SO PROUD
[photo+3.JPG]
[10.JPG]
Posted by Shandra Reiswig at 10:30 AM 1 comment:
Labels: the big 4
Thursday, October 18, 2012
Update in the Modesto Bee
[brin.jpg]
http://www.modbee.com/2012/08/17/2334514/an-ear-for-musicimplants-allow
.html
Posted by Shandra Reiswig at 10:27 AM No comments:
Tuesday, June 19, 2012
Swim Baby Swim
Well...It's the time of the year that I've been dreading, SWIM LESSONS!
I mean I'm totally excited about swim lessons but just stressing on
how we can waterproof Brinley's "ears".  I want her to hear while her
wim instructor is giving directions. I finally found an adult size
wim cap that is stretchy enough to pull over Brin's head and cochlear
implants! Worked like a charm. Just had to share this.
[photo.PNG]
Brinley was SO excited to swim...The second the teacher would start
talking Brinley would raise her hand and yell "I DO, I DO"! Haha. I
think she wanted to be the first one picked but she didn't even wait
for the question to be asked. It was so cute. And of course there's
Danica trying to pull her arm back down telling her it's not her turn
:) I chuckled the entire time.
[image-1.jpeg]
Brin gave it her all. She was determined to splash the most water, jump
the highest blow the most bubbles. That's our girl! NO FEAR!
[image-3.jpeg]
{ "Look Mom, I do it. I swim. I big"}
[image-4.jpeg]
And last but not least...big sister Danica is by far the best sister in
the world!!!  She takes Brin under her wing, asked the boys to stop
plashing her sister during class and when Brinley fell behind in the
water race, Danica back tracked and took Brinley by the hand
encouraging her to finish.
How on earth did Rod and I get so lucky?
Happy Swimming
Shandra
Posted by Shandra Reiswig at 6:27 PM No comments:
Sunday, December 4, 2011
Olivia the Pig Bash for Brin
[IMG_4869.JPG]
Birthday set up at the Yogurt Mill
[IMG_4871.JPG]
Rule #49 Red Velvet Cake is simply the best!~ Olivia the Pig
[IMG_4873.JPG]
Tables had coloring pages of Brinley as Olivia the Pig....
[IMG_4876.JPG]
Olivia the Pig favors
[IMG_4897.JPG]
Rule # 114  Never miss a very important party! ~ Olivia the Pig
[IMG_4962.JPG]
This is the happiest Brinley has ever been! (thanks to the M &Ms,
prinkle and gummy bear yogurt toppings) Oh, and the hot chocolate!
[IMG_5035.JPG]
Glama Rhonda playing tag with the kids to work off some energy
[IMG_5021.JPG]
Seriously the CUTEST group of kids ever...
Brinley is 3. Holy cow! It seems like yesterday I was at Oakland
Children's Hospital and got the diagnosis that Brinley was deaf. I
remember my Aunt driving home with me from that appointment (and I know
he was trying to lift my spirits) but she said something to the affect
of  "It's not that big of a deal" and turned up the radio station. I
was thinking to myself----- Not that big of a deal? Maybe because YOU
don't have to deal with this....you're not the Mom of a baby that can't
hear and is deaf. If I could of flash forwarded to Brinley's birthday
party yesterday, WOW! I would have viewed this entire process
differently. I've had a good attitude and positive outlook (don't get
me wrong) but my Aunts comment was right on point. It's not that big of
a deal . Brinley amazes us every single day. Last week at school her
teacher came running up to me and said while they were rolling play
dough Brinley asked "Can you help me roll it, OK?" That's a 7 word
entence after hearing for 20 months. Average for this age is a 2-3
word phrase. Yay Brin! To all the Moms out there that are struggling
with a child that has a special need (whether it be hearing loss, ADHD,
Autism, or anything else) the most important thing you can do for your
child is acknowledge your child's weakness and vow to do everything
possible to assist them to becoming the best they can be. I know
parents that have got a diagnosis or been told their child might
possibly have an issue and the parents blow up, not my child, how dare
you kind of attitude....and their child goes untreated.
As each year, each month, each day goes by OUR pride in Brinley (and
Danica!) just multiplies~ They are teaching us the biggest lesson there
is to learn in life. Patience, understanding, devotion and
unconditional love.Can't wait until our little lady turns 4!
Posted by Shandra Reiswig at 7:39 PM No comments:
Labels: happy birthday
Wednesday, September 7, 2011
Boom shake shake shake the room....
[EMBED] video
Fly girl in the making? I think so! In the morning I always turn up the
volume to get the girls pumped up for a good day at school. I think
it's hilarious how some say deaf kids can't experience music
appreciation, it's Brinley's favorite time of the day!  Notice
Brinley's new choking dance move? Apparently her and her big sister
have been playing "doggie" and since we won't let them use a leash,
they pretend. Crazy girls!
How stinking sweet is Danica?!!!!??? Brinley is lucky to have such a
helpful sister and best friend in D
[IMG_2716.jpg]
-Sassy Pants-
Love it!
I sneezeeeeee AaaaaChoooo
Brinley "Bless you Momma"
Me "Thank you"
Brinley "Welcome"
[IMG_8150.JPG]
Posted by Shandra Reiswig at 8:37 AM No comments:
Wednesday, June 8, 2011
Brinley + Stanford = Love!
It's been 7 months since Brinley's last "tune up" on her fairy ears. I
took her for what turned out to be a 3-hour appointment. For 2 years
old, she did great! I’m a little exhausted, the drive home took almost
3 hours in rush hour traffic. No bueno!
[IMG_6963.JPG]
Diagnosis: Brinley has a perforated left ear drum (hole in eardrum that
never closed up from her surgery last year and still has a ear ache in
right ear drum with fluid) Poor girl! On the bright side, Brinley sound
booth reflected she’s hearing between 20-25 decibels! That’s fantastic
ince average hearing is set at @ 20 db. If anything, she has average
to mild hearing loss. Better than being profoundly deaf as she was a
year ago, Dr. said she could stand next to a jet engine and not even
flinch. Hooray!!!!
[2011-06-08.jpg]
Our audiologist Jan was surprised at the strides Brin has taken since
her last appointment. In the video clip Jan has Brinley's ear hooked up
to the computer and she gives off a series of internal beeps. When
Brinley hears the beep, she puts a block on the pyramid. She’s really
growing into her ears and loving to listen. What a gift!
IFRAME: http://www.youtube.com/embed/v2gu7OrUCWs
We are doing good on the Ling sounds:Ahhhhhhh, eeeeeee, shhhhhh,
SSSSSS, MMM but still struggling with oooo --for all you CI Moms and
Speech Therapists that know this lingo. For you CI parents....a fellow
CI family created a Ling 6 Iphone application. I downloaded it, here's
the format below. Search Ling 6 in itunes.
[ling%2B6.jpg]
Brin is exhausted, nighty night!
[IMG_6941.JPG]
Posted by Shandra Reiswig at 7:53 PM 1 comment:
Friday, April 15, 2011
1 year Anniversary
[2011-03-12.jpg]
April 20th marks the anniversary of Brinley's activation of sound, 365
days of hearing. I'm nervous and super excited about making it to this
point. A year ago when we were told Brinley was deaf I was extremely
depressed and thought to myself "what in the hell are we going to do"?
My thoughts were what kind of life will she live? What does this mean
for Danica? In a way I felt a little jipped, mad at God for not making
my child "perfect".
MY OHHHHHH MY how time changes everything. I pray every single day
(more than once) to God and thank him for my daughters. They are both
perfect just the way they are. I've accepted this fact and my life has
been able to move forward at lightning speed. So has Brinleys.
On Brinley's hearing birthday I'll post a short video with her
progress. Today in speech therapy her therapist was thrilled, Brinley
had 5 new sounds,YAY! For those with special needs kids you Mommies
know how we celebrate the small things!
(for Danica) CHIRP CHIRP" when she sees a bird or Itty At for Kitty
Cat.
These days are so special and I'm thankful to be home. At Target the
other day I was pushing the girls in the stroller telling them a joke
and laughing when Danica asked me to stop the cart. I did and asked her
"what's wrong honey?" Her reply was so precious. She said "Nothing, It
just feels so great to have a Mommy". Totally unexpected and beautiful.
Our children are a relection of ourselves and by the love Danica and
Brinley show others-and while there's always tons of room for
improvement
I must say we are doing a damn good job :)
In closing I thought I'd post my inspiration for creating this blog. 16
months ago, the day I found out Brinley was deaf I was driving home
from Oaklands Childrens Hospital when this song came on. It took on a
entirely new meaning to me and my life. Anyone that has daughter's know
that special bond that is unbreakable. Thanks for reading...
-
[2011-03-13.jpg]
Posted by Shandra Reiswig at 2:18 PM No comments:
Wednesday, January 12, 2011
Proud Momma
I haven't had a chance to blog in awhile. Between my husbands
birthday, preschool, speech therapy, Thanksgiving, Christmas, family
events, Danica's 4th birthday and Brinley's 2nd birthday- I've been
kinda busy! But tonight I feel like talking :)
Brinley is 2. It's been 8 months and 14 days since she's been
"activated". I have many mixed emotions about the process. I mean, I
wouldn't change a thing. Demanding authorization from insurance
company, REFUSING appointments months out and just throwing myself
into the world of deafness. It's been hard on Rod and I. Mentally and
physically exhausting. But at the same time it's been impowering. I
think how hard it is on me and then I feel super guilty. It's not hard
on me----- it's hard on Brinley. She's the one that has to wear her
equipment daily, deal with all the tweaks and issues that come along
with it. The stares, the questions, pre-ops, genetic apts. It
couldn't feel good to wear heavy sound processors over her tiny ears
every waking hour. Or the long hours of rehab and all the extra work
it takes just to "listen". But she's doing it and doing it with grace.
It will almost be 9 months since our daughter has been hearing. She
follows commands for example:
Go get your shoes on
Time to brush your teeth
Its time to take a nap
Jump up at the table
Lets go wash our hands
Give Sissy a kiss
Buckle up
Daddys home
Time for bed
Wheres your baby?
Do you want to go to the park?
Time to go outside
Go get your jacket etc.....
In the last month she's spoken the words
More
Ma Ma Ma
Da Da
Esssse for please
Esssse for cheese when talking a picture :)
Dog for dog
Mmmmmm when eating something good
NO!
OT for hot
Shhhh when putting baby to sleep
Hi
Hey
Uh Oh
Ni Ni for night- night
It's not exactly where I thought we would be at 9 months post
activation but I need to compare her to a 9 month old hearing baby.
They don't say much but babble at this age so when looking at the big
picture....we're on the right track.
<3 Reiswigs
You have been sent 3 pictures.
IMG_6604.JPG
IMG_6454-1.JPG
IMG_6057.JPG
These pictures were sent with Picasa, from Google.
Try it out here: http://picasa.google.com/
Posted by Shandra Reiswig at 9:04 PM 1 comment:
Monday, December 6, 2010
Light$, Camera....No Action
Everyone around me is buzzing about their Holiday family pictures. Who
they're booking with, wanting some ideas on how to pose...but the
hocker has been how much money my friends pay for photos. HOLY COW!
I've always loved to do my own pictures. I even did my own Maternity
hots that turned out awesome. Brinley doesnt care for the camera
lately and I've tried EVERYTHING (M&M's, horn, Mommy falling down,
throwing a ball in the air, going cross eyed, Grandma doing jumping
jacks, phew...tired just thinking about it) and we might get a smile
1/20 times. Today I had my iphone as we were playing in the backyard. I
tried to capture the girls silly side. Then playful side. Serious side.
I must say for using my iphone camera I love how my pictures turned
out. Don't be afraid to try something new, use a new angle, try that
picture software that gone untouched on your computer. I hope my girls
look back on all my pictures and collages someday and feel the love and
energy I put into capturing their spirits <3
Posted by Shandra Reiswig at 6:41 PM 1 comment:
Friday, November 12, 2010
What is a sister?
Every Friday morning we start speech therapy at MJC at 9am. At 9:30am
we start storytime, playtime, snack time, etc. We head home about
11:30am. Today more than ever I'm just in awe at the bond Danica has
formed with little Brin-Brin (as she calls her) In the past 24 hrs I've
witnessed Danica helping Brinley put her ears back on when they fall
off, grabbing her socks or a blanket when it's cold, sharing her juice,
planting a SUPER BIG hug and kiss just because-----but today when
leaving playgroup was by far the most touching.
As we opened the car door to hop in the car, Danica (who is destined to
be a speech therapist, nurse or teacher) stated
Brinley, open the door, OPEN. OPEN. SAY OPEN BRINLEY.
Brinley looked at her and gave a long "OOOOOOOO", best she can do, and
I'll never forget how Danica reacted. She was so proud of her little
ister!!!! D turned to her with tears swelling and said
Good job baby Brin Brin, good talking, your the best baby sister
ever. Take your time. MOM, did you hear that? Brinley talked for
me......
So touching as a parent to see all your hard work pay off. It's not
just Rod and I that have to adapt, it's Danica too. She's been so eager
to learn sign language and communicate with her sister. Both of our
girls are so incredibly special for different reasons.
We are family,
I got all my sisters with me.
We are family
Get up ev'rybody and sing
Posted by Shandra Reiswig at 1:34 PM 4 comments:
Tuesday, September 28, 2010
A phone call changes everything...
The morning we left for vacation I got a call from a Geneticist at
Harvard in Boston. She has news. Brinleys further testing revealed
mutations in two different genes (MY07A and CDH23) unfortunetely these
are Usher Syndrome Genes. For those of you that don't know what Ushers
is- it's complete or profound deafness at birth or profound loss by
age 1, balance problems and full vision loss by early childhood (age 5
or 6 however some make it to late teens before legally bling) Yes, it's
a Deaf-Blindness Syndrome. I was told she
doesn't have Ushers in the common sense because both genes would need
to be affected and she only has one mutatation in two separate genes.
So complicated. Fast forward- the call was to inform us Brinleys
results were so rare, they have never been seen before nor do they
have any documentation on it. "Uncharted Territory". This now leaves
us with alot of questions. We're not sure what these mutations mean or
how they will impact our life but there's no looking back now. Only
looking forward-
Posted by Shandra Reiswig at 6:27 PM 1 comment:
Friday, September 3, 2010
My Frosted Flake & Pixie Stick
Posted by Shandra Reiswig at 9:58 PM No comments:
Saturday, August 28, 2010
Is no news good news??????
Finally, after a 14 week wait I get "the call" from Stanford Genetics
Dept. They have Brinleys results back from her Genestics testing. I've
been preparing myself for this phone call- What if they tell me
Brinley has one of these hearing loss syndromes that also takes her
vision? What would I do?nHow would I react? I just want answers as to
why this had to happen to MY Brinley.
Long story short......they found 2 rare genes in Brinleys testing
however at this time (coupled with current technology) there's no way
to connect her rare genes specifically to "hearing loss". So pretty
much they don't know why she's deaf. No idea if other future siblings
are at risk. No answers. Just a "let's do further testing in a year or
two".
I'm devastated.
I didn't think I'd take this so hard. There's tons of deaf people out
there that don't know the cause of their hearing loss. Why can't I be
ok with not knowing and just accepting this is how it was planned to
be? Do I have another child who is at risk for being deaf? Can I
handle another CI surgery? All the planning? All the fighting with the
insurance companies? All the trips for pre-ops and mapping? I'm not
going to lie...... It's exhausting. HOWEVER, and it's a big HOWEVER-
today I studied Brinley. As she laughed, and cried. As she rocked her
baby to sleep and played house. As she slid down the slide, and
attempted to read a book. As she followed Danicas lead and tried to do
Gymnastics, summersaults and all. Watching her in speech therapy
making progress or running to hug her sister when she's sad- Tonight
we dressed up as fairies and Daddy took the girls flying around the
house! So fun! When it was time for bed tonight Brinley grabbed my
face with both hands, planted the biggest kiss on me and then
proceeded to giggle and cover her mouth as if she was shy. She is such
a special and loving girl and that moment will stay with me for the
rest of my life. We are blessed with Brinley who has come into our
lives and in my opinion- made life worth living. Hell with results.
Live in today.
Posted by Shandra Reiswig at 8:46 PM 1 comment:
Older Posts Home
Subscribe to: Posts (Atom)
Fun Stuff
Brin giggling as baby looking in mirror Faster faster! Video Signing
fishy Photobucket
I love my Sister
Muuuaaahhh!
Happy Valentines
My best friend
My sister...
Labels
Followers
Blog Archive
About Me
My Photo
Shandra Reiswig
View my complete profile
