
ir a principal | Ir a lateral
Meet Cal...
Sorry...
we are too lazy or busy (you choose) to keep up two blogs. If you want
to see how Cal is doing visit steveandbrynn.blogspot
Posted by Steve at 10:30 PM 0 comments
Bi-lateral???
I guess this blog is due for an update. Cal is about 18 months now and
he is still our chubby happy lil’ dude. He has finally figured out the
walking thing and wobbles around the house like he owns the place. His
religion is still the same: he worships food and his big sister.
Cal is doing incredibly well in both speech and sign. He probably has
about 8-10 words:
Mom
Uh-oh
Bye-bye
Hi
Hot
More
Up
Ball
Whu for What
Animal Sounds (rooster, cow, dog, horse, duck)
Pa-pa (his Grandpa)
Dada is still ah-ah, but we are working with him.
And beyond that he says almost all of his sounds: ah, ooh, ew, buh,
wha...he's doing really well for 5 months post activation.
Brynn gets every ounce of credit for Cal’s success. Audiologists,
peech therapists, deaf mentors, PIP advisors and working with Cal – I
don’t know how she does it, but she’s an incredible Mom.
We are at point where we are wondering about a 2nd implant. There seems
to be a lot of opinions out there, but very little hard evidence for
children. So we will go ahead and ask all of you. Is there anyone out
there that has received, or had a child receive a bi-lateral implant?
Would you recommend it? What differences have you seen? Please let us
know – we’d love to hear from you. Thanks in advance!
Posted by Steve at 2:02 PM 12 comments
Meet Cal's Voice...
Cal loves his implant and loves his new voice. Every time his implant
goes on it is like flipping on a voice switch - quiet Cal goes to noisy
Cal. He is responding to pretty much all sound and is already on
program 3 of his 3rd mapping. He is getting sick of working on his LING
ounds, but so far he has said his mmm & aaah, and is so close to
making an eee sound.
And although it sounds like his whole life is about his CI, it really
is not. He is a typical little dude that destroys everything, climbs
anything, and drives his sister nuts. He's a little stud and he knows
it.
[EMBED] video
Posted by Steve at 11:19 AM 4 comments
Cal's Activation
Well we guessed right! Everyone asked us how we thought Cal would
respond when he was first turned on, and we said "he'll probably do his
nervous laugh." He was such a good sport at the appointment. It is a
long and strenuous process for a 1yr old, but he did a great job! For
the past two weeks, Cal has just been getting acquainted with his
implant. Yesterday we went in again and they activated more electrodes
and turned it up a level. Today at breakfast Londyn started talking to
Cal, and he turned and looked at her! I think it is the first time he
has actually heard her talk. It has been a whole new world of fun at
our house these last couple of weeks, and we are so grateful for the
genius doctors that came up with this miraculous technology.
Here are a few pics of his new skull candy!
Posted by Brynn at 11:54 AM 2 comments
Cal's Eventful Two Weeks
[EMBED]
Mr. Cal turned 1! He had a great party with family, ate some yummy
cake, and got a whole bunch of fun presents! Since he turned one, our
weet, cuddly boy has turned into a complete maniac. Cal is definitely
going to be a wild man like his daddy!
Cal's Surgery went extremely well. He was only in surgery for an hour
and a half. They were able to place all of the electrodes in the
cochlea without any complications. In fact, he was back to his normal
elf about 7 hours after the surgery. There were three other 1 year old
babies that got implants that day, so Cal had a lot of fun playing with
his new friends! Our little man is such a trooper, and we are so very
proud of him!
Posted by Brynn at 11:03 AM 4 comments
Surgery Is On!
After countless…
phone calls
faxes
managers
forms
and waiting, our insurance finally approved Cal’s cochlear implant.
That means that this Friday is a go! The long wait is over, Cal will be
implanted by the end of the week.
Excitement
worry
happy
ad
concern
and relieve setting in. We will be sure to let you know how it goes.
Posted by Steve at 2:17 PM 5 comments
Happy Birthday Cal!
365 days ago that Brynn and I were in the hospital holding our tiny
little infant. And here we are, one year later, holding a fat little
man. And that fat little man has brought us more happiness then we ever
thought possible. Calan is the type of kid that smiles for anybody,
laughs for no reason, waves to passing airplanes and burrows into your
neck when he’s tired. I’m lucky to be his dad. Happy Birthday Cal.
Posted by Steve at 3:59 PM 1 comments
Dad's Sentimental Rant
By no means do I consider myself an expert in all things deaf, but what
I have learned in the past 8-½ months is astounding. As a parent you
read books, you learn audiology results, you pour over cochlear implant
tudies, you take ASL classes, you meet weekly with PIP, you immerse
yourself in the Deaf culture; whatever you can do, you do. You figure
the more you learn, the less lost you will feel.
But lately I find myself grateful that I have been able to learn so
much. I’m grateful that I am learning another language. I’m grateful
that I have discovered a culture I knew nothing about. I’m grateful for
friendships made. I’m grateful my son is deaf. I know this post is
ridiculously cheezy (and I am sorry for that), but for parents who are
maybe just finding out that their child is deaf. It gets better. It
gets much better. In fact, it becomes pretty awesome. Believe me,
watching your little 10-month-old sign Mommy & Daddy is about the best
thing in the world.
I’m not saying that there are not trials and heartbreaks. I’m not
aying it’s easy or painless. I’m just saying there are good parts too.
And the older they get, happiness and acceptance start to take over all
of the worry and sadness. Like I said, it gets better...much better.
Posted by Steve at 10:23 PM 7 comments
Date Set
The date is set, the okay has been given…we are officially a go. Cal is
cheduled for his cochlear implant surgery on Sept. 4, 2009. So now
that the date is set and most things have been squared away I’m
tarting to freak out a bit. Part of me wants the day to never come and
the other part of me says it can’t come soon enough. Being a parent is
hard enough without having to make multiple absolute life altering
decisions for my kid well before he even gets to blow out his first
candle. So goes the life.
Cal’s still a ridiculously tempting piece of chunky. Every time we
leave the house people can’t help but kiss his fat cheeks. Here are a
few pics we had done recently:
Posted by Steve at 12:12 PM 4 comments
Cal's first words (signed of course)
Yay for Cal! He said his first words! Just like a hearing kid who says
"Mama" for the first time, a deaf child will sign it. I know, I know,
lots of kids sign at nine months, but for some reason it is really
exciting to see your child sign when it is his only form of
communication. Cal's first sign was "dada." Can you believe that! After
all the work I have done with him to sign Mommy, his first word was
daddy! Londyn did the same thing. What is that all about? The next
igns to follow daddy were mommy, more, and ball. Cal also understands
the sign for light and airplane. I figure that is the only benefit of
living in the direct path to the airport. We get a gazillion planes
flying over our house every day, so Cal has had plenty of opportunities
to learn that sign!
Here is a video to demonstrate his skills. Of course Steve put him
through torture in order to capture it on film, but what do ya do?
Posted by Brynn at 4:14 PM 3 comments
Older Posts Home
Subscribe to: Posts (Atom)
Our Little Dude
Calan "Cal" was born in August of 2008. He is a happy little guy that
rarely misses a meal. When he smiles (which is often) it covers his
whole face. He loves his big sister and will only cuddle with his mom.
Cal is perfect in every way. Cal also happens to be profoundly
deaf...and these are his adventures.
This blog is for family, friends, strangers and (to be honest) me.
Archive
Met along the way...
and he's grown ...
10 months ago
ROAR!
1 year ago
Zeke's Christmas Program
2 years ago
It's Not Fair.
4 years ago
Pre-Thanksgiving News
5 years ago
