
Cochlear Kids
country kids with cochlear implants
Pages
Showing posts with label cochlear implants. Show all posts
Monday, October 12, 2015
11 Years of Hearing
It is hard to believe we are approaching 11 years of hearing with our
first born. Brooklyn has been hearing for almost that long as well, but
Gage was three and a half years old when his first cochlear implant was
turned on. Here's how funny all that noise can be!
IFRAME: https://www.youtube.com/embed/4XHy-3_4hxk
We had no idea that the three years of silence or at least minimal
hearing aid benefit would never show at age 14. We didn't expect him to
catch up so fast but a little boy's determination and hard work paid
off. He was released (graduated) from AVT only a year later just when
his sister began her journey. These two compliment each other well and
they sure have taught me more than I could ever teach them!
IFRAME: https://www.youtube.com/embed/rAPd-9NLeJc
I need to post some more videos!!
0 comments
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: cochlear implants, correcting speech, deafness, Goldenhar
Syndrome, HEAR Center, hearing loss, Surgery
Saturday, September 12, 2015
The Problem with Hearing Kids
The problem with hearing kids, is they hear. We hearing parents of deaf
children grow accustomed to being able to get up at 4:00 a.m. (or stay
up to 4:00 a.m.) and do dishes, laundry, vacuum, any noisy task we want
because our kids will sleep soundly. When hearing friends come over, we
panic. Suddenly everything we do becomes magnified by 10,000 and we
realize how noisy we parents really are.
I "shhhhed" myself this morning when making breakfast as the two deaf
ones slept soundly and the one hearing friend (also was out cold) was
at risk for being awakened. Luckily, no fire alarms blared this morning
(which is usual) so I was pleased they got their much needed ZZZs. I
guess we can take that early morning time to do other things like,
blogging, drinking coffee, and watching the sunrise!
[2014-11-29_06-32-52_147.jpg]
Labels: cochlear implants, deafness, hearing loss, no implants Brook
Saturday, July 18, 2015
Making an Electric Guitar
So what do bored teens do when school's out for summer...make homemade
electric guitars of course!  This first video is the very first one he
made last week.
[EMBED] video
The upgraded version of the guitar soon followed when a neighbor (who
is very smart about a lot of topics-guitars is not one of them but
welcomed the challenge) took the boy under his wing and let him come
over everyday (for hours on end) and use tools, ask questions, and
together...two great minds came up with this: (though he warns he still
has string work to do)
Labels: ADHD, cochlear implants, deafness, Goldenhar Syndrome, hearing
loss, parenting, random stories
Sunday, July 12, 2015
Heavy Metal
[IMG_20150712_150558_edit_edit.jpg]
Let's face it, he was heavy metal the minute he picked up his first
guitar. Well, not really, but he is certainly cool enough to be...
We finally got the boy in his braces. Sorry to all the Goldenhar
patients that don't have a cleft palate, insurance will likely NOT pay
for the braces. But that's okay. He is in them, and will be for a
while. They only put on the top row this go around and will add the
bottoms at a later appointment. He will also add the spacer later as
well. He didn't want to put everything in his mouth at once and have
the Gman super uncomfortable. The braces hurt bad enough, but nothing a
little ibuprofen won't handle.
We will remove the braces in about 6 months temporarily to add
composite bonding type additions to the front teeth to make them look
more like full pretty teeth. After that is done by his family dentist,
we'll go back and put the braces right back on. The bottom row will be
moved only slightly forward and then a pediatric bridge will fill in
the remaining gap where he has no adult teeth (missing bottom front
four). After the boy finishes growing at around age 20, he can decide
if he wants an adult (more permanent) bridge or dental implants.
I know it sounds like a lot, and we haven't even been back to see the
urgeon about the whole jaw issues, but he too wanted to wait until
after age 18 to fix any of that (should we go in that direction).
However, by the time the chap is in his early 20s, he'll be so glad he
did all of this and I think he'll love the results! We are blessed as
always to have a magnificent team helping and guiding us along the way!
The main concern now is keeping the health of his teeth and
progressing in weight gain. Gman is afraid this will set him back but
we have loads of ice cream to supplement his lack of biting into food
that is just plain uncomfortable and not recommended for a young'un
with braces. The anxiety is behind him now and he's getting used to the
heavy metal already!
Labels: braces, cochlear implants, Goldenhar Syndrome, music,
orthodontist
Sunday, July 5, 2015
Hovering
[gage%2Bguitar.jpg]
On an impromptu stop at a Wal Mart, my mother decided to get G's hair
cut. He needed a cut desperately and she was being the good grandmother
and getting that little chore out of the way while they were out
hopping.
Well, "the girl" my mother called her, sat G down and mother explained
to her that once he removes his CIs that he'll hear nothing. Mother
proceeded to explain how he wanted his hair trimmed up and assured "the
girl" that she'd stand close by in case she needed her to communicate
for her while he was off air.
Hmm, "the girl" got really nervous and told my mother she'd have to go
it down and not hover over her while she cut hair....(hover over her?)
Yep. As you can imagine, that didn't go over well with G's grandmother.
Mom said, "I'm not sitting down until I'm certain you know how he wants
his hair cut!"
Needless to say, he got a slight trim and we'll just see that he gets
to his regular barber (who is much more understanding and nicer) than
ome people tend to be. Completely made the Gman uncomfortable as well
as mom but they both learned something from their impromptu stop.
Labels: advocacy, cochlear implants, deafness, Goldenhar Syndrome,
hearing loss
Thursday, July 2, 2015
Wanted...
...because some deaf children really do hear!
The boy picked up a guitar last summer and hasn't put it down since.
So five guitars later, we started him in guitar lessons to couple his
natural talent...I should say un-natural talent, God-given,
God-decided-to-bless-him talent.  However you look at it, if you had
asked me ten years ago when he was four if he'd be able to ever hear a
guitar well, much less play one, I would have said NO.
Labels: cochlear implants, Goldenhar Syndrome, music, random stories,
religion
Sunday, March 15, 2015
Regional Tech Fair
[IMG_20150313_100447.jpg]
One proud Mama alert...
Never in my wildest dreams did I imagine this high-tech kid would be
tanding in front of judges presenting a project about her cochlear
implants. She and her friend/partner decided to do a project about B's
ears and how technology helps her hear and the impact it makes at
chool, including her friends' point of view and how her peers play a
role in her success.
These girls were asked many questions, they answered confidently, and
brought home first place medals......next month, the are to present
their project at the state competition!
2 comments
Labels: cochlear implants, contest, hearing loss, presentations, School
tories
Tuesday, November 11, 2014
87
Gman had an appointment today to check his height and weight because
ome of his medication suppresses his appetite. Well, at age 13.5
exactly....he's finally broke the 80 lb mark at a whopping 87 pounds!!
We are thrilled! He's 5 ft 2 in and gained 10 lbs in the last 5
months!! His failure to thrive as a baby has come a long way.
Orthodontia was denied by insurance despite his syndrome that is
directly responsible for his anomalies. We go see the oral surgeon
again in January and see if new paperwork will get it passed through
because he not only needs braces, he needs dental implants and possibly
jaw surgery as well. I used to think that was so far in his future but
at age 13, he's fast approaching the age (17) where they want to
address the jaw distraction issue. Only time will tell, but he's a
pure-bred champion so we'll cross that bridge when we get there (and
with a smile on our faces).
Brooklyn is still doing well. She's almost 11 now [DEL: and thinks she
knows everything :DEL] . Her grades have improved quite a bit this
first report card and she is doing great. She listens to music with
typical headphones on her tablet but still uses the speaker phone while
using a cellular or other telephone. Gage prefers texting and just
doesn't seem too interested in learning to use a phone any differently,
though he can hear some using the speaker phone.
Brooklyn's hens are now laying. She started with 18 for the 4H project
and gave away 9. Some of her 9 remaining began laying eggs this week
(brown ones). We are still waiting on the Easter-eggers to lay which
will be pastel colored eggs. She is such a good little "mama" to them.
Other than that, we just enjoying mountain/country living and can't
believe how Blessed we truly are!
Labels: ADHD, cochlear implants, deafness, genetics, Goldenhar
Syndrome, hearing loss, music, orthodontist, School stories
Wednesday, August 20, 2014
A Blakely Update
Not a lot of posting from the Cochlear Kids as of late but we are in
full swing here in Alabama public school. Gage has started the 8th
grade and is doing well so far. They are beginning to read The Giver in
English class. He was also assigned Music Class and despite his initial
thoughts, it will be a true asset to him in the future if he wants to
play guitar. He picked it up a few short weeks ago on summer break and
with a few chords from his daddy and a few from a cousin, he's
learning...
Brooklyn has entered the 5th grade. She is still with me everyday since
I work at the school full-time now. She will leave me after the 6th
grade and go over to the high school with her brother. Her N6s are
till doing fabulous! She loves her chickens which will start laying
eggs within the next few weeks!
We love it here on "the mountain"...the world moves a whole lot faster
than we do but we wouldn't change a thing!
[1405519952162.jpg]
[1403626665275.jpg]
[1400890809058.jpg] [2014-06-26_09-48-24_836.jpg]
[1405383329747.jpg]
Labels: cochlear implants, music, random stories, School stories
Saturday, July 12, 2014
Her "New Ears" Audiogram
Her last audiogram in 2013 w/her Freedoms
[BROOKaudiogram.jpg]
...and you can see her Speech Reception was at 20 db...meaning she can
hear speech softer than that looking at the chart but not clearly
enough to understand it until you reach 20 decibels.
Now with her new N6's...
[Scan_20140712+(2).png]
She still hears very well with her CIs but can hear clearly at 5 db in
the sound proof booth. That's a soft whisper!
We all know that in any type of noise that will dramatically decrease
her ability to hear speech but we are very pleased with her new ears
and the main thing is...she too is very pleased with them and that's
the most important!!
She will be starting 5th grade on August 7th and as her team leaders,
we have agreed that she can try the classroom(s) without her FM. She
does NOT want it and this is the same grade Gage quit using his as
well. We sought the advice from her Hearing Impaired Teacher and she
agrees we could give it a try. If she needs it, we'll give it back to
her no problem. I work at the school so I'm just a short walk away if
he needs me.﻿
1 comments
Labels: audiology, AVT/speech, cochlear implants, deafness, FM systems,
HEAR Center, hearing loss, MAPping, School stories, upgrade
Saturday, May 10, 2014
The Teenager
[gage+truck.jpg]
Thirteen
I remember my first Mother's Day. I wondered if I would still be a
mother a week later, a month later or a year later. People buzzed
around me with concern for my newborn child. We become mothers because
we have children. This little guy taught me how to be selfless, how to
be patient, how to be deaf and then how to hear. My life slowed down
and I watched him grow up in slow motion, yet here he is, a teenager.
Not long ago I was driving down the road on the way to a Wednesday
night church service and I hear a 12 year old voice lift from the back
eat, "Mama. I know why you only had two kids." I respond at the odd
and random comment, "Oh you do? Okay, let's hear it." He said, "because
you didn't want anymore deaf kids. We're a lot of trouble and you
didn't want to have to do all that again." I quickly interrupted,
"That's not true or I would have never had your sister. You would be an
only child." A smile reached his face as we pulled into the parking
lot.
Children teach their parents just as much as parents teach their
children. Families grow and learn how to love each other despite faults
and failures. There are times I wake up in the mornings and hear a
child's voice that thirteen years ago, I was certain I would never
hear. He enjoys his silence at times and will often belt out an old
church hymn in the shower and I realize, he can't even hear his own
voice...he's just offering it selflessly to his family and to The Lord.
He can put his "ears" on and listen to the rain pound our old tin roof
and a smile of appreciation will spread across his face. He brings more
joy to our family with each passing day and I am so very thankful I was
chosen to be his mother.
We are honored to own a teenager this day. He is loved, he is
appreciated, he is a Blessing. Happy birthday buddy.﻿
3 comments
Labels: cochlear implants, deafness, Goldenhar Syndrome, hearing loss,
music, parenting, religion, speech reading
Friday, May 9, 2014
New Ears Update
[Brook+new+ears.jpg]
After a full ten week wait, we finally received B's new ears! She was
the fact that she can now change the colors without the messy stickers.
We also figured out that the N5 covers (her brother wear N5s) fit her
N6s and they are cheaper to buy so we ordered a few more colors for her
along with the coil covers to match.
I am so proud for her and proud of her. She was asked to speak to a
first grade class about her implants since their reading story was
about a deaf child. The teacher has a deaf nephew and has taught my
children in the past so she was quite familiar with the cochlear
implants. Brooklyn was happy to show off her ears yesterday to the
crowd of six/seven year olds.
[pink+ears.jpg] We will take her back in a few weeks for some minor
adjustments and put her in the booth for an audiogram so we'll have a
better idea/comparison of how she's hearing. We only have two more
weeks of school here in Alabama and we're out until the beginning of
August! IEPs are done and State testing is underway. She has no special
accommodations other than testing in a small group setting in case she
encounters technical difficulties. I am sending her back-up ears just
in case.
Brooklyn has also enjoyed the bilateral accessory cord she can plug
into her electronics (and so do I). We have a few of the swim bags we
will use over the summer but we will be looking into purchasing the new
aqua devices Cochlear has come out with for both children so they can
wim (without the embarrassing bags). All in all, we are very excited,
very pleased and very Blessed people!
[plugged+device.jpg]
Labels: bilateral, cochlear implants, hearing loss, IEPs, music, School
tories, upgrade
Tuesday, April 8, 2014
Week 10
We have begun week 10 of the "it should take about 8-10 weeks for the
whole process". Looks like our "process" is taking longer. However, I
did get a letter from our insurance company that states that it appears
he will qualify for the replacements. I heard from SunMed today who
tated they are still waiting for final approval and then they will
contact me. So again, we sit and wait. I was teaching yesterday about
adages/proverbs. One adage stated, "Patience is bitter, but its fruit
is sweet." I'm going with that!! Next week I have both of my children's
IEPs for school. Gage will be preparing for the 8th grade and my B will
be in 5th!! How did this happen?
Labels: cochlear implants, deafness, hearing loss, IEPs, School stories
Wednesday, March 12, 2014
Waiting to Hear...
...and the latest response from SunMed is..."Mrs. Blakely, I will
contact you as soon as I hear from the insurance company." Here is what
I would send if I we are still waiting at the end of this week:
Dear (insurance company):
My ten year old child, Brooklyn Blakely, is seeking approval for
replacement processors for her cochlear implants. I understand that
your work load holds tremendous weight and we are trying to express
patience as we await this approval but we have basically been on hold
ince the first of February.
While everyone in your office enjoys impromptu conversations with
trangers in a day's passing or the background music playing overhead
in your favorite local retailer, my child is missing out. She smiles
and nods her head at random people as they speak because she has no
idea what they just said, or may have asked. She has to ask what song
is on the radio because half the time sound is cutting in and out. The
eight year old "ears" she is currently wearing fail her almost daily as
he gets up in the middle of class instruction to try to restart them,
ometimes without any luck at all. This is very embarrassing for her
ince nobody else in her class has hearing loss.
While everyone in your office enjoys relaxing at home after work, she
comes home in tears on some days, purely exhausted from trying to hear
the world around her. I understand the difficulty of an overwhelming
case load, but as you hear the softest droplets of the rain on your
rooftop or listen to the words of your favorite church hymn, please
remember my daughter. She needs those things too. Thank you so much and
please look into her case if you get a chance. It is important we get
her replacements as soon as possible.
Thank you, Val Blakely
[edited+light.jpg]
Labels: cochlear implants, no implants Brook, random stories, School
Monday, February 17, 2014
She's Not Been Approved
[1620432_10202990241414020_671871994_n.jpg]
We've waited (almost) a month now since we had our fundraiser, since we
ent in our initial paperwork, and finally we have a response...she has
not been approved (YET). We are just now getting to that approved/not
approved point. I did receive a figure (a total) on the amount of out
of pocket expenses for the processors and WE HAVE ENOUGH FOR TWO!!!!
Hallelujah.
I quickly responded with "Move forward, move forward. We have it!"
Several thousand dollars is a lot of money but Praise The Lord He's
een fit for her to get two new ears, not just one. Now they are
ending the "okay" to my insurance company to proceed with paperwork
and when they approve her..(yes, I'm claiming it, V-vi-ctory!)...we
will place our order. I already have her an appointment AEA week in
hopes we will have them in our hands by then, and ready to TURN THEM
ON!
And what's even better? We have enough to buy two new "ears", the
accessories she wants, extra batteries, the aqua-packs for swimming,
and maybe even enough left over cover the clinic bill once she goes in
for her MAPping session to have them turned on and in tip top working
order! Covered-in-full. If, and that's a big IF, anything were to be
left over after I get her all set up, I will buy a few extra parts for
Gman's CIs so he will continue to be in excellent shape and we should
be set for a while!
We could not have done all that on our own, so thanks to HIM, HE guided
our little community and provided a way. Thanks to those who followed
HIS lead! My two PTO friends who worked so hard, the two wonderful
families for singing, and every last person who donated money or food
for the event or even prayers! I had one lady hand me a check one day
and with tears in her eyes she told me that after her daddy died
(recently) she had a little bit left over and instead of buying herself
the earrings she wanted....she wanted to give it to my B to help with
new ears. She said she couldn't stand the thought of her needing new
ears and knowing she was spending money on "bling" so she wanted to
give. Warmed my heart!
Because of this wonderful community, this rural, small town big-country
place...it looks like my baby girl will be hearing better in no time!
Thank you all. B is smitten!
Labels: bilateral, cochlear implants, HEAR Center, MAPping, parenting,
upgrade
Thursday, January 30, 2014
Thank You
[N6+updated+drawing.jpg]
As we begin to fill out our thank you cards, I realize I didn't buy
enough. There is no way for me to personally thank everyone because
there were so many people who donated money, food, their voices, and
prayers for the event last weekend. There were people in the crowd I
never got to see, or hug, and filling out these cards seems like such a
mall thing to do. Our community has pitched in and raise over
$5,000.00 towards Brook's new ears. She said the other day, as I tried
everything to just turn one of them on, "I want ears that match. I want
ome that are all the same color and not pieces put together!" We have
ubmitted her paper work to SunMed Medical and now we wait. They say
the whole process will take 8 to 10 weeks but we are very excited, and
nervous, and trying to be patient.
Labels: advocacy, cochlear implants, upgrade
Monday, January 27, 2014
Awaiting the Call
I am now just awaiting the call back from SunMed (I had not contacted
them prior to this weekend's email) to see if we have enough to proceed
with Beez replacement processor order! I have to work all day but can't
wait to get home and see what they say. I know they'll have paperwork
to do, info to wait on from insurance etc. but to know that we have
taken one step forward towards getting her new "ears" is beyond
exciting. I was shocked when the benefit singing raised so much in one
night but I shouldn't be. The Lord Blessed us all in that room Saturday
night and I'm grateful we were just present! The Angelic voices that my
children could hear, the Testimonies that my children could hear put a
mile on my face but the Angelic voices that I could feel and the
Testimonies that I could feel, put a smile on my heart. We love our
community and are very close to that upgrade because of them!
[N6+chart.jpg]
Labels: cochlear implants, upgrade
Wednesday, January 15, 2014
Prepping for an upgrade
We are now prepping in high gear for Brook's upgrade to the N6 Cochlear
implant processors. I suppose being out of the loop, not reading blogs
like I used to, not reading the group messages, etc. I am just now
getting the word from Cochlear that they do not bill my insurance
company. That will be up to me to seek reimbursement for any durable
medical expense. We will be required to pay the $7275.00 (I am aware
they cost over $9,000.00 each but we will do a trade in to receive a
discount) upfront for each ear. We are taking it one ear at a time at
this point! We have some local friends doing a benefit for us which is
cheduled for January 25, and we are very excited. We have a really
good start and I thought it would help our friends and family keep up
with the process/progress with a visual so each time we add to the
"pot", I'll put up a new chart and carry it right through the upgrade
process. It's sad that these things cost this much but a blessing that
he hasn't got injured or had a failure to require surgery again.
Insurance would be billed directly then and we wouldn't have such an
upfront expense but we are excited for her, she's been needing an
upgrade for years now and this will only make us work harder to get it
for her! We aren't looking at it as a set back but a push forward.
We've been praying about it, so we encourage all of you to keep praying
for her, HE can and will make it happen. We're claiming this one!
[chart+N6+upgrade.jpg]
Labels: bilateral, Charity, cochlear implants, upgrade
Friday, December 27, 2013
The Latest on Goldenhar Boy
[2013-12-26_12-27-29_922.jpg]
So we spent most of yesterday at his annual appointment that usually
takes six hours (but we got lucky and were done in 4). This is where a
ocial worker, nutritionist and several dental experts get together and
ee some of the special cases to make sure the kids are gaining weight,
getting proper nutrition and to discuss future surgical plans. We have
been planning for a jaw distraction in his teenage years all along but
yesterday the idea was tossed up that a different surgery may be better
for him. The main problem is finding a proper bite for him with so many
missing and misshapen teeth. We are going to start seeing an
orthodontist soon (which was in the plans all along) to see if he can
move the teeth he has into some kind of "order" if...and that's a big
IF, he has enough bone to work with...there may be some bone grafting
needed as well. Any type of mouth surgery isn't the most pleasant of
urgeries, so I hate it for the little guy. However, we are truly
Blessed. Most Goldenhar patients are in far worse shape as far as the
mouth/face goes, so we are very thankful his problems are limited. He
finally weighs 70 lbs at (almost age 13) and for that we are thankful
as well. He's growing, slowly but growing, so for that we are Blessed
also. Love this little fellow, and like my Maw-Maw always said, "God's
got His Hands on this one."
On a lighter note, he got to see Ms. Sue Sue the artist again. Even
though he may have outgrown her coloring, painting, stenciling on an
average day...he loves to see her every year and just sit down and talk
with her, paint with her, and truth be known, I think Ms. Sue Sue
enjoys it just as much. She always remembers him.
Labels: cochlear implants, deafness, Goldenhar Syndrome, parenting,
Surgery
Sunday, November 3, 2013
Study Day
[2013-11-03_09-56-01_442.jpg]
Back at the first of the year, as my Dermatologist removed the
cancerous tumor on my foot, we discussed my children. She was very
interested in the oldest child's Goldenhar Syndrome. She had heard of
it, but never seen a person who had been diagnosed to her
recollection...so she asked us to participate in a large event held
there each November where Dermatology Doctors come from far and wide to
learn more...
My mom and I loaded the boy up at 5 am this morning and headed south,
to UAB's Kirkland Clinic. They provided us with breakfast, coffee,
cookies, other snacks, and more coffee. The boy earned a nice monetary
prize from the University for his time and that is probably the only
reason he wanted to go (typical). They placed us in a room (other
patients were there also) and I kid you not...over a hundred doctors
from all over the world came in small groups where I gave my "speech"
on cochlear implants, Goldenhar Syndrome, skin tags, scars, dermoids of
the eye, etc etc etc...
[2013-11-03_07-46-04_431.jpg]
Gage did grow tired of the whole event after the first hour (we had
already seen like 80 people at that point) but he was polite as
expected and they all thanked him/us for coming and helping out over
and over again.
I had explained to him before we ever went that this would help some
child in the future. If they come across another child with these
features, conditions, anomalies, they may have some idea what direction
to point the parents...and that is all we wanted to do. They also
reiterated that him as well so he was happy to help.
Both of the kids did well on their report cards this time, and we
continue to mainstream as we always have. They are both participating
in the church Christmas play again this year and we are about to leave
for practice now. We still hope to upgrade Brooklyn's "ears" by April
of next year as we must come up with the funds, since insurance will
only cover 80%, we'll need over 3 grand before we upgrade to the N6s.
Fingers crossed and praying now, we hope to accomplish this for her.
She is on her last few spare parts right now! Until next time....
Labels: advocacy, bilateral, cochlear implants, deafness, genetics,
Goldenhar Syndrome, hearing loss, parenting, presentations,
professionals, religion, School stories, skin cancer, Surgery
Older Posts Home
Subscribe to: Posts (Atom)
Get rewarded for shopping online
Follow my blog by Email
____________________ Submit
Popular Posts
It does get better as my kids age...I'm talking about my water park
anxiety. All parents have a certain amount of fear I guess taking
mo...
Ahhh, yes they got the reward (that was suppose to happen last week
but the migraine rerouted us). I can never say our appointments are
...
Can you believe that I can not walk thru a craft store w/out
wondering if the items would look good attached to my kid's head?
Spent an ...
I finally got around to reading the final reports sent from UAB
from that study my kids participated in for kids with hearing loss
to test t...
I have to let the videos speak for themselves! But you'll notice
peech babble, and Emma's speech has come a long way. You can see
f...
Brook can not take her eyes off of her newly pierced ears! They
don't get in the way of her CI processors at all and she's so
deligh...
Ladybug
Val's latest book (click to buy)
Blog Archive
[Blog Archive__]
Translate
Get Paid to Blog
Get Sponsored by Big Brands
Ladybug-download today
Support independent publishing: Buy this e-book on Lulu.
Check out my blog
The Road -my Christian blog
The Bama Life-country life, freebies, prepping and more.
One Brick Shy-the lighter side of life
"Cochlear Kids" Followers
Labels
I'm All Ears (no longer available)
by Val Blakely & Tamara Harrison, M.S., CCC, SLP
[728X90.gif]
Awesome Inc. template. Template images by andynwt. Powered by Blogger.
