heart. speak with love. - RSS

listen with your heart. speak with love.
Our Family's Cochlear Implant Journey
Saturday, June 15, 2013
Bless his heart.
6 years ago when this whole journey started, I either was hiding in my
bathroom crying or walking around completely full of anxiety wondering
what the future would hold for my chubby baby boy. Would he be able to
communicate? How would he communicate? Would he be able to go to his
neighborhood school and be with his typical hearing peers?
My deaf little boy.
It took me a really long time to say that word. Deaf. I have a deaf
on. He was a baby with hearing aids and then a toddler with a Cochlear
Implant. Strangers would stare. Sometimes sweet old ladies at the
grocery store would pat my shoulder and tell me how sweet he was and
"Bless his little heart".
So now, 6 years later as I beg my little boy to save the rest of our
chat for tomorrow morning because it really is past his bedtime and he
had such a fun day playing with his friends, I am at peace. Sorta.
Christian finished Kindergarten yesterday. Kindergarten in our fabulous
neighborhood school where his buddies from around the corner and our
little town go. Kindergarten in a typical classroom with typical peers.
Kindergarten in a school where he is the ONLY kiddo out of over 500
that has Cochlear Implants.
I spent this year at our mainstream school excitedly explaining to
parents, teachers, administrators, and coaches "Yes, he's deaf BUT...."
My bilateral Cochlear Implant boy is able to do things academically and
ocially that every other 6.5 year old boy can. He became a class
leader, a class clown and quite the athlete this year. His hearing
loss, while always on my mind, was also a bit further down the list. By
December, I found myself reminding people that he was deaf, and don't
forget to have him sit closer even if he thinks he doesn't need to (he
really doesn't need to, but it makes me feel better as his Momma).
Along with his great success came different worries. We are still
really working hard on rehabilitating his year old left Cochlear
Implant. Teaching a deaf kid (even one like Christian) to read and tell
the difference between a /th/ sound and /f/ sound is a challenge and
frustrating sometimes for the both of us. And then there are the
typical Kindergarten things like high emotions and focus that come into
play. It's been a fun year with some hills to climb.
On the last day of school, Christian is writing simple sentences. He's
reading right where he should. He is excited and can't wait for 1st
grade.
My deaf little boy. Exactly where he should be.
[blogger-image-1551647862.jpg]
at 6/15/2013 2 comments: Links to this post
Monday, May 27, 2013
5 years.
I no longer have little babies.  Christian is finishing up Kindergarten
in 3 weeks and Lily is eagerly awaiting the start of Pre-K this Fall.
As my dear friend Kim puts it, we're almost out of the weeds. Family
trips are easier as they are older. The dynamic of our family life has
changed. While it's become much more busy with lacrosse games, ballet
recitals, and the constant hustle and bustle of life, the insanity of
having babies and toddlers running the show has given way for a more
controlled chaos. My college roommate just had her first baby and was
asking me when the kids first sat up, how much food they ate and a
bunch of other questions that quite honestly I couldn't remember.
Life. It just moves. Really really fast.
At least that part of our life.
And then there is our life as a family impacted by hearing loss. 5
years ago today Christian received his first Cochlear Implant. Over the
past 5 years, we've had months that have flown by with progress and
weeks that have stalled with set-backs. I may not be able to remember
the month that my kids started sitting up but I can tell you the exact
moment when Christian acquired the /sh/ sound.
5 years later, my sweet and silly little boy is thriving in a
mainstream classroom with typically hearing peers. He just finished up
his first lacrosse season (with a championship win), loves Tae Kwon Do,
is obsessed with sports, is reading books and is a great friend. He's
responsible, loving, sensitive and hilarious. The icing on the cake is
his second CI, which he received a year ago last week. His localization
of sound, articulation and his academics have really benefited from
that second ear. He's just doing great.
It's not the end of the road for us though. Weekly therapy appointments
for his newly implanted ear, constant monitoring of his mainstream
classroom experience still dominate our family life. But it's gotten
easier. 5 years later, I'm not as scared. Just as he's gained
confidence, I have too. My smart and sweet little boy continues to work
hard, roll with the punches, and just defy the odds.
Christian, I'm so proud of you. Every single day your amaze us.
[DSC_0926.jpg]
at 5/27/2013 4 comments: Links to this post
Friday, April 5, 2013
THIS is how mainstreaming should work
I wanted to share a snippet of a response that I just wrote to our
fantastic Teacher of the Deaf who sees Christian once a week. I think
it gives a window into what we go through everyday here:
R-
Thank you for this fantastic update. Chuck and I are SO appreciative of
your detailed reports. I feel so disconnected sometimes (even though I
do my best to get into the classroom frequently) and feel very lucky to
have your eyes and ears there for us. Since Christian is our first, I
often find myself wondering "Is this normal or is it a deaf thing" and
have no idea half the time what to expect. The other half of the time,
I'm winging it :) My Christian is an amazing little guy, and he no
doubt has made incredible gains with his CIs, but I still worry for him
and how he's progressing with his literacy. I have a feeling the moment
it all clicks, I'll be able to breathe better.
He loves his time with you---yay! It sounds like he is doing great with
his listening for you. I'm curious, during his listening of words when
he got 6/9 was that just left only? Or both?
I would love your input on any communication I give to the school
regarding his placement for next year. In addition to the sheet that
will come home, I plan on writing to Mrs. L.  outlining Christian's
trengths, and also noting some specific challenges. The placement with
Mrs. R. was SPOT on, so I have a positive feeling about next year but
just want to be sure. I know that a controlled yet innovative classroom
really benefits him. He needs an organized teacher who runs a tight
hip but is flexible and is really willing to work with him.  And
Please please please tell me that you will be our provider again next
year?
Again, thank you. It's hard to believe that we only have 2 more months
of school. And it's hard to believe that in just over a week we'll be
celebrating him going bilateral. It's still mind blowing to me.
Christian's in-class teacher and his service provider collaborate. The
principal is involved and actually KNOWS my kid. He is thriving in our
neighborhood school in a typical Kindergarten classroom. This is how
mainstreaming a deaf kid should work. I really hope that we can keep
this momentum going.
[IMG_2836.jpg]
Aquarium fun over spring break. I love how he still looks little in
this picture.
at 4/05/2013 3 comments: Links to this post
Tuesday, March 12, 2013
Spinning....
Christian's been bilateral for almost a year. The series of mapping
appointments we've had over the past several months have shown that
both his right and his left ears are in the 15-20 db range. His right
ear speech perception scores are unbelievably amazing in the high 90th
percentile. However, even though the audiogram shows his left ear is
comparable to the right ear, his speech perception in that ear is in
the low 40th percentile. For all the non-CI Mommas and friends reading
that, it basically means audiologically he is on track but when we
actually evaluate what he IS hearing with just that left ear, we have A
LOT of work to do.
I was thinking about all this during my spin class today. I was trying
to clear my mind, focus on my workout but I just couldn't stop thinking
about my Christian.  My sweet kid is a hard worker, and out of my two
children, he is my pleaser. There's no questioning with Christian. He
just DOES. The rehabilitation of his left ear has had it's frustrating
moments, and he just carries on. He's patient. He's constant. He keeps
hanging on. And quite honestly, he has no idea what's going on when it
comes to the left ear. He just knows that he likes having 2 CIs better
than 1, BUT he likes the "old ear better than the new ear".
I started having one of those bi-monthly pity parties that somehow
till creep up half-way through the class and got a bit teary eyed. I
found myself asking God why? I was asking God in the middle of a spin
class to give me the courage and grace to make the right choices
because I was doubting them. I found myself getting overwhelmed and I'm
pretty sure today was the first time I ever said a Hail Mary with
cycling shoes on.
I've had a hard couple of weeks, and this is just the icing on the cake
and I'm trying really hard to keep this in perspective. I knew that
this wasn't going to be easy, and to many my journey IS a piece of
cake. We're just going to buckle down, keep isolating that left ear,
work a bit harder, and try not to breakdown during my BodyPump class
tomorrow.
at 3/12/2013 2 comments: Links to this post
Thursday, February 28, 2013
Report Card.
Two Words: HE ROCKS.
Along with all "Ps" (we have a new grading system in our county) that
denotes that he "Meets the grade-level standard by demonstrating
proficiency of the content or processes for the Measurement Topic),
Christian completely rocked out his reading.
[photo.JPG]
That little dot notes where he is, and the black shaded area is where
he is expected to be. So, the second marking period of Kindergarten, he
is reading at the expected 1st Grade level.
This is my little boy, who happens to have bilateral cochlear implants,
who is in a class with 22 other kids in a TYPICAL public school
classroom with NO visual support, with NO FM system. He is the only kid
with hearing loss in his grade and the only child with Cochlear
Implants in a school with close to 500 kids.
This is my little boy, who also was in school since he was 18 months
old, who was enrolled in an amazing program for 5 years that put him
with typically hearing peers so he could LEARN language from them. This
is my little boy who since age 2 has been advocating for himself, who
gets tired faster than any other kid in his class because according to
him "Listening is hard work, Mom".
This IS my little boy. He is TOTALLY rocking it.
at 2/28/2013 2 comments: Links to this post
Friday, February 8, 2013
6 years old.
[-1.jpg]
This post is 5 days overdue thanks to our internet being down in our
house. Thanks Verizon.
It's hard to believe that was me 6 years ago. I found this picture
going through my digital files and had a wave of both sadness and joy
come over me at the same time. Oh those sweet moments with your first
newborn baby. The cuddles outweigh the sleepless nights (look how tired
I am in that picture). The excitement clouds the complete terror of
having a new baby and being a new Mom. I so loved those first few weeks
with my sweet new boy. It was cold and we hibernated. I nursed him
covered with a fleece blanket as friends stopped by for tea and my
parents did our wash. I was learning to be a Mom and it was so new. The
"me" in that picture was still innocent. Hearing loss, deafness, IEPs,
urgeries, Cochlear Implants, private schools, speech perception
testing and inclusion meant nothing to me. That "me" in the picture had
no idea what I was in for. And it would take another 9 months for me to
get there.
I see that girl with her sleep-deprived eyes yet peaceful smile and I
am thankful for the time that I had when I was clueless. I've spent
YEARS being angry at myself for not knowing it all in the beginning,
questioning how much was lost during those months when my little boy
had no sound. Wasn't it MY job as HIS Mother to know? How could I have
let that happen to my boy? What did I do wrong? Yet now when I look at
this picture and I see that girl who is just so at peace with this
perfect little human I'm over it. I did the best that I could do with
what I had and enjoyed my new baby like any other new Mom. Even if it
was just for a couple of months, I was innocent.
6 years old. Happy Birthday to my little man. You find time to cuddle
me in between your sports practices and Lego building sessions. You are
a good friend and a fantastic student. You are silly. You are sweet.
You use words like "photosynthesis" and track hockey game scores and
love your sister like no other. I adore you. I love you. I'm proud to
be your Mommy.
[IMG_2447.JPG]
at 2/08/2013 No comments: Links to this post
Monday, January 28, 2013
Happy Birthday Lily Grace
[IMG_1757.JPG]
of this sweet girl, but can't!*
My baby is 4 years old today.
What a blessing she is to our family. I always believed that she came
at just the right moment, even though at the time I thought we'd be in
over our head. I found out we were pregnant with her on the day of
Christian's first Cochlear Implant activation. He was just under 16
months old, and we were in the thick of it. I was constantly
overwhelmed, I had no idea what I was doing with a toddler, let alone a
deaf one, and I was exhausted. All the time. And we were going to have
another one?! What the heck were we thinking. I was convinced I'd
drown.
And the total opposite happened when she came along.
Liliana Grace, sweet Lily Grace lifted us all up with her sweet face,
and million dollar smile. Over the past 4 years she's been our saving
grace. Her humor, her spunk, her little bit of sugar and a whole
heck-of-alot of spice are my treasures.
She is my reality check and my comic relief. On days when I'm up to my
ears in IEP edits, lacrosse camps, and CI coils, she pulls me to her
room for an impromptu tea party with her bitty baby and girls. She is
full of magic. She is her brother's best friend. At almost exactly 2
years apart, she loves him like no other. He takes her sass and she his
rules. They are just perfect together.
Happy 4th Birthday Sweet Baby Girl. You are simply amazing.
at 1/28/2013 No comments: Links to this post
Monday, January 21, 2013
Learning to Listen
Just after Christian's first Cochlear Implant activation (almost 5
years ago...wow....) my life was consumed by teaching him to "LEARN TO
LISTEN". I lived my life as his Mother creating language opportunities
knowing that Christian's deafness had NOTHING to do with the softness
or loudness of a sound but rather to give him the tools to apply
MEANING to what he was hearing.
Do you hear that?
I heard that sound!
That's an owl. Who, Who....yes, Who! You're right!
Swoosh, goes the basketball in the net.
Chop, chop, Mommy's chopping.
Then, almost magically....sounds had meaning. I mean, I know it wasn't
magic. Christian's brain learned to take the SWOOSH of a basketball
through the net and interpret that as a meaningful sound. He figured
out that the squeaks in his ear were shoes on a hardwood floor in his
chool. The rumble he heard faintly through the windows were OBVIOUSLY
airplanes flying in the distance. He stopped asking me "WHAT'S THAT?".
As he grew, it just clicked. Honestly, at almost 5 years post his first
activation and one year after his second implant the days of me
teaching him a sound and what the meaning was are almost gone. And then
we took him to the Verizon Center to see his beloved Capitals practice
during Fan Appreciation Night.
My little sports nut, who watches SportsCenter with the fervor and
appreciation of a college kid, was thrilled to see his heroes shoot the
puck around.  I took him down to the very front, and watched my sweet
boy who is growing so fast, bang on the glass and chant "LET'S GO
CAPS". With my hands on his shoulders, I followed the puck with him.
Even with thousands of people, the rink did eventually have a calm
quiet about it. With the sounds of pucks hitting the boards echoing
throughout the building, my almost 6 year old turned to me and said
"Mom, what's that sound?"
"Oh sweetie, that's just the sound of the pucks hitting the---"
"No, Mom....no not that the "psshhh, pshhh"
I had one of those world-stopping moments right then and there when I
realized that Christian was hearing the sound of the blades slicing
through the ice as the players skated around. I realized that he was
hearing the sound of MY past. I grew up in an ice rink as a competitive
figure skater and the sound of my blades cutting through cold and hard
6am morning ice is still forever engrained in my heart. It is a sound
of comfort and of peace.
With tears in my ice I told him that was the sound of the blades
cutting through the ice. And that if he listens, he can even hear when
the players use their edges to stop.
"Oh, ok...that's cool."
Yes, my amazing little boy...it is SO VERY COOL.
And just like that, I realized that my job isn't quite done. My little
boy, who can tell the difference between a french horn and a trumpet by
ound, is STILL learning to interpret the meaning of sounds.
[IMG_2410.jpg]
Check out his handmade rally sign!
[IMG_2421.jpg]
Right-up on the glass!
[IMG_2428.jpg]
Alex Ovechkin!
[IMG_2401.jpg]
[IMG_2430.JPG]
What a happy boy!
at 1/21/2013 No comments: Links to this post
Monday, December 31, 2012
2012 from a Blog Slacker's View
I've been a blog slacker. Life is crazed, and quite honestly 2012 was
NOT my year in regards to time management. Last January, my New Year's
Resolution was to take a step back and peel back my time commitments
and focus on what was important: My family, my faith, and my friends.
In April Christian went bilateral, and I had to throw that resolution
out the window. Intensive rehabilitation was back on our family
calendar. The transition to a new school, meant more meetings and more
tress. I thought that I would have MORE time starting in September
with Christian being closer to home for school and Lily in school one
more day a week. Instead my days went by faster, and my nights became
longer as I attempted to squeeze everything in.  I tried so hard to
juggle it all, and quite honestly, I really think I did a horrible job.
Yet when I look back at this year, and I see all that it brought to our
family and to me as a wife, mother, and friend, maybe my resolution DID
work. I took the few minutes I had in between work, carpool and
volunteer commitments to be silly with my daughter. I made sure that
for every minute I spent working with Christian on his new CI that we
pent 2 being playing Legos together. I may not have had the most
creative and Pinterest inspired dinners on the table when my sweet
husband would come home, but I made sure to give him some much deserved
time and attention when he came home from work. I committed time to my
faith and ministered to the women in my parish community and felt
myself getting closer to the Lord every week. And I really feel that I
gave my beautiful friends who truly are such gifts, the love and
attention that they so truly deserve. While I didn't gain the extra
time I thought I was going to get, I became more conscious of the time
that I DID have. I treasured it. I cherished it.
I guess I'm no longer a rookie, and really should just expect that
every year as the kids get older, things get trickier, time disappears,
and things will just get HARDER. Sometimes life throws you a curve ball
(like going bilateral) and you have to adjust. If 2012 taught me
anything, it's to be ready for the unknown. Luckily, I have my faith,
family and friends to rely on.
2012 Highlights
[recovery8.jpg]
Bilateral Boy
[photo-5.JPG]
Cherishing this time...
[DSC_0600.jpg]
2012 was the year of ballet for Beanie
[DSC_0035.jpg]
And Tae Kwon Do for Buster
[DSC_0058.JPG]
We visited Aunt Ali and Uncle Bu many weekends.
[IMG_1356.jpg]
And spent them with Uncle Dave and Aunt Alison too!
[IMG_1359.jpg]
Josie and Lily were our comic relief on those hot DC summer days.
[IMG_1390.JPG]
And we cooled off Up North with Nana and Papa.
[IMG_0035.JPG]
Lucky.
[DSC_0487.jpg]
Aunt Sarah and Uncle Nick time is the best!
[IMG_1553.JPG]
Cocktailing it in NC.
[IMG_1575.jpg]
Spending time with our cousins!
[IMG_1578.jpg]
Visiting with Uncle Art and Aunt Mary!
[IMG_1579.jpg]
Wishing we lived closer...
[IMG_1592.JPG]
Lazy and fun days at the pool...ok, who am I kidding. Tiring and
ometimes annoying days at our pool. But the kids had fun together.
[IMG_1611.jpg]
A lucky little boy to have a friend like Justy!
[IMG_1614.jpg]
Silly friends!
[IMG_1618.JPG]
Again, Josie provided Comic Relief.
[IMG_1622.JPG]
And Willis and Jack did too!
[DSC_1085.JPG]
Laughing with Papa!
[DSC_0774.jpg]
First day of school!
[DSC_0807.jpg]
[DSC_0824.jpg]
Lacrosse fun!
[DSC_1063.jpg]
Halloween--first year they didn't have "joint" costumes. My boxer and
Marina from The Fresh Beat Band!
[IMG_1637.JPG]
Labor Day fun in our little town!
[IMG_1671.JPG]
I still need my Dad!
[IMG_1682.JPG]
How cute are they?!
[IMG_1701.JPG]
Best Friends!
[IMG_1747.JPG]
So lucky to have these girls.
[IMG_1749.jpg]
This is what we do on Tuesdays.
[IMG_1797.JPG]
Daddy's birthday
[IMG_1798.jpg]
And a shot of what I look like 10 hours a day. In the car.
[IMG_1825.JPG]
Football fun!
[IMG_1831.jpg]
Love my Belle!
[IMG_1832.JPG]
My loves.
[IMG_1961.jpg]
Crazy family times!
[IMG_2006.JPG]
It's fun to have a friend almost as crazy as you are. And who loves
wine more than you.
[IMG_2012.JPG]
They're getting old.
[IMG_2024.JPG]
Daddy cuddles.
[IMG_2040.JPG]
So lucky to be able to spend time at home and watch my lovey and her
friends grow!
[IMG_2042.JPG]
Nutcracker with my baby angel. Not going to lie, I cried.
[IMG_2043.JPG]
Spending the morning with our besties was SO fun!
[IMG_2057.jpg]
Thursdays.
[IMG_2097.JPG]
THE BEST.
[IMG_2143.jpg]
Makes me so happy!
[IMG_2208.jpg]
My Shepard!
[DSC_0122.JPG]
When some of your best friends happen to live on your street...you're a
lucky girl!
at 12/31/2012 3 comments: Links to this post
Older Posts Home
Subscribe to: Posts (Atom)
[ShabbyBlogsCrazyLife.jpg]
My Photo
Christian and Lily's Mommy
I'm a 30something Mom to my two beautiful children, Christian
(6), and Liliana Grace (4) Christian was born Deaf, and was
implanted with his Cochlear Implant at 14 months of age and his
econd at 5 years old. Lily is hearing, and is a handful but a
joy in everyway! When I'm not shuttling my kids back and forth
from playdates, therapy appointments, school, and Target (we're
ALWAYS THERE!), I'm advocating for my son, and all children with
hearing loss.
View my complete profile
Resources
Turning Back Time
[Turning Back Time]
Popular Posts
River School.
Visitors
[s-event.png]
[3971]
Check out 5 Minutes for Mom
WAHM Directory
Search My Blog
Loading...
FEEDJIT Live Traffic Feed
Feedjit Live Blog Stats
Simple template. Powered by Blogger.
