heart. speak with love. - RSS

listen with your heart. speak with love.
Our Family's Cochlear Implant Journey
Thursday, August 16, 2012
Game Plan
We have a bit over a week until Christian starts Kindergarten. And I'm
anxiously awaiting both a classroom teach assignment and our itinerant
teacher assignment. We've got the new backpack, new shoes, and the IEP
is in place. Here's some other Back-to-School things I have planned to
ease the transition regarding Christian's hearing loss:
-Conduct joint-meeting with our in-class teacher and itinerant to give
background and go over specific proven strategies for Christian.
-Present in-class teacher with a prep-kit that includes an adaptation
of these cards that AG Bell has developed, as well as Tips for Teachers
(page 7) from this Cochlear Americas resource. (Check below for our
version of the prep sheet)
-Continue auditory rehabilitation on newly implanted ear with our
fantastic private SLP through the fall.
-Conduct programming and MAPping appointment the 3rd week of school
with our equally fantastic private audiologist.
I'm also packing up his little backpack kit with his extra batteries,
battery covers, and tape and trying to figure out a way to keep it safe
and snug but also accessible in his new backpack. He's going to be
great, and we absolutely are confident in our school. But, I'm his Mom.
And it's my job to worry.
Prep-Sheet Text
As you may know, our son Christian has an Individualized Education
Program (IEP) due to his hearing loss. If you have not received a copy
of Christian’s IEP, please see the principal for a copy, and discuss
with her how to best ensure the agreed upon goals are met. While the
IEP outlines Christian’s formal educational goals, we wanted to share
uggestions that will help us succeed together from day one. Please
keep in mind that cochlear implants (CIs) do not “fix” hearing, like
glasses fix poor vision.  Christian’s cochlear implants help enhance
his hearing, but additional assistance is still needed. We’ve listed
ome strategies below that help Christian to better understand
conversations and classroom lessons. We are looking forward to a
uccessful year working with you.
It helps Christian when:
Ø  Classroom directions are repeated. It’s easy for Christian to miss
things that are said quickly and it is important that he not fall
behind or appear to be misbehaving by not following directions.
Ø  People speak clearly and he’s able to see their faces. Please try
not to cover your mouth with paper or books, or talk with your back
towards the class.
Ø  He doesn’t stand out amongst his classmates. If you are concerned he
missed something you have said, please check with him in a subtle way.
Ø  He is able to sit close to the point of instruction whenever
possible, whether it is you, videos or other activities.
Ø  The whole class understands that it’s important to speak clearly and
one at a time. Directions and assignments are available in writing.
Ø  He is able to share or compare notes with a classmate or you, as
appropriate.
Ø  He is able to anticipate the schedule and is alerted of any changes
in routine. Visual schedules are a great tool for Christian.
Technology Tips
Ø  Christian’s Cochlear Implants help him hear much better, but he
doesn’t always understand what he hears especially if the room is noisy
or if people talk too fast and on top of each other.
Ø  We are happy to talk with you about Christian’s Cochlear Implants.
We will feel better knowing that you understand how his hearing
technology works.
Ø  We plan on keeping a kit of supplies Christian’s backpack that will
include extra batteries. We do not anticipate him needing to change his
batteries, but it may happen. He will do his best to do so in a quick
and timely manner, but please do allow him time to troubleshoot. He
can’t hear without his CIs.
Ø  Christian’s kit will also contain extra tape strips that he uses to
help adhere his CIs behind his ears. He may need to change the tape
after gym or recess when he is sweaty, so please help remind him to
check to see if his CIs are staying on ok. Please remind him to check
if his CIs are ok before and after playground.
Ø  Christian has a remote control that he uses to change the settings
of his Cochlear Implants. Please allow him to keep this remote in his
backpack and to be able to readily access it during times of
transition. We anticipate that he will want to change his program
before going into the noisy lunchroom. Please allow him time to do
this.
Ø  Christian’s CIs and remote cannot get wet. If a water activity is
planned, please call us to make arrangements.
Ø  Please ensure that NO other students touch his CIs or remote.
at 8/16/2012 No comments: Links to this post
Wednesday, August 15, 2012
Calendar Anxiety
Does anyone else have heart palpitations when you change out your
family's dry-erase calendar in the kitchen from one month to the next?
What about when you start the "Repeat Every Week" function in your
iCalendar so when you open up your iPad your entire schedule looks like
an Impressionist painting with all those little dots?
I officially have calendar anxiety.
Christian starts school in less than 2 weeks.
Yay!
After school activities, auditory training (maybe, more on that
later...I don't know?), and the complete insanity of our family's fall
chedule also starts in less than 2 weeks.
Yay?
Wasn't I JUST begging for the "routine" of fall?
Much like the rest of the Moms of the world, I am now taking on the
task of manage our calendar. Webbing together delicate carpools with
trusted friends, trying to be in 2 places at once every morning, AND
making sure that EVERYONE (Chuck and myself included) has THEIR TIME. I
mean, a guy HAS to make his fantasy football draft party. We do have
priorities.
So here I sit, plugging in lacrosse, which has then reminded me that
this year our little guy needs a cup. Yes, a little boy cup to protect
his family jewels. So that goes on my "Supply" list. Tai Kwon Do is our
constant, we're still doing that 2 days a week, but I have to make sure
we get a good carpool going for that. Soccer? Or Baseball? Soccer is
out. It's the same time as Lily's ballet...which reminds me, add tights
and possibly new shoes on the "Supply" list.  Baseball? Who is doing
baseball? Do I have to be there? Is there a date for that? And what
about auditory therapy? When is that? I guess it has to be on a
Tuesday, since Mondays and Wednesday are martial arts, Thursdays are
ballet and Fridays, well aren't Fridays our days to just sit on our
neighbors and best friends' decks and just watch the kids go wild while
we drink red wine? Saturday mornings are Lacrosse, Sundays are CCD.
I'm one of the crazies that keeps a paper calendar, which I then
cross-reference in my iCalendar, which is synced on my iPhone and iPad,
which I then transfer EVERYTHING to our master family white-board
calendar. I'm staring at every single weekend from Labor Day through
November 3rd being completely booked.
It's only going to get worse. They are still so little. My best friend
who has 4 kids has gracefully mastered the art of being in 4 places at
once, and I've only seen her lose her cool maybe once or twice (there
was a time when we weren't quite sure where her oldest boy was and if
he actually made it to the soccer field and if he was going to get a
ride home...but it happens). I know I'm a rookie at this.
Now....off to planning lunches.
Living the dream people, living the dream.
at 8/15/2012 No comments: Links to this post
Tuesday, July 31, 2012
28 Days and Counting
[IMG_1506.JPG]
I hope he continues to make me my morning coffee when he's a big tough
Kindergartener!
I feel like this entire summer we've been counting down to something:
Activations, swim lessons, Tae Kwon Do graduations (HE'S A GOLD BELT
NOW!!!), our vacation to Michigan, our vacation to North
Carolina....everything.  Christian's been seriously counting down to
the start of his lacrosse season and helping Lily figure out when she
gets to start ballet again.
Now we're counting down to the start of school. 28 days from today.
Which means 28 more consecutive days of anxiety attacks for me. 28 days
of me freaking out. I don't think I have the typical "first-time
Kindergarten" jitters. He's been in school full-day for 3 years and for
all practical purposes, the class he was in last year was a
Kindergarten class. He knows how to make new friends, he plays well, he
hares, and he's starting to read. Not much to worry about on that
front. I have more of the "first-time in a school that he's the only
with Cochlear Implants and these teachers have no formal training when
it comes to educating my kid" kinda jitters. I thought I was ok, and
then BAM. I switched my dry-erase family calendar in the kitchen to
August and realized that summer is almost over and this protective
little cocoon of easy-breezy days with relatively no worries is just
about done.
I am anxiously awaiting not only our teacher assignment but also our
itinerant assignment. I'm eager to get into the school and do a little
bit of in-servicing. We've really been pushing Christian's newly
implanted ear with MANY hours of rehab both with his SLP from The River
School and with a county SLP. He's made absolutely astounding progress,
but is he at the point where he could actually use that left ear alone
in a mainstream public school classroom with NO support....um, probably
not. Will we get there soon...I REALLY HOPE SO.
So here I sit...wine in hand, anxious tummy and racing thoughts nesting
of sorts. Binders have been purged and re-organized, hand-outs have
been printed, and my poor girlfriends have had their fill of my rants
about "Omg, is this really happening? Is he really ready? Are we
ready?'. I'm thankful I have them, and I know in 28 days they are the
ones who will be reminding me to freak out because he's in KINDERGARTEN
not because he's the kid with the CIs in the class.
at 7/31/2012 1 comment: Links to this post
Smitten with the Mitten
We spent a week in Northern Michigan with my family and it was THE
PERFECT stress-relief. It's quiet. It's quaint. It's easy for the kids.
And it was FAMILY. Seeing the kids experience the joy and wonder up
there that I grew-up with was amazing. I wish we could've spent the
entire summer there.
[DSC_0210.JPG]
This is what I call an Up North Sky.
[DSC_0233.jpg]
Cherry Festival kids!
[DSC_0229.jpg]
You should've seen her waiving the American Flag....just a little piece
of American Pie!
[DSC_0303.JPG]
Fishtown. So excited to share it with my
[DSC_0318.JPG]
Love Leland and Love sharing it with Chuck and the kids.
[DSC_0488.jpg]
Uncle Nick and Aunt Sarah camped overnight on an island in the middle
of Lake Michigan!  We met them on the docs after their ferry ride home!
[DSC_0594.JPG]
Bustling BelleAire.
[DSC_0597.jpg]
Must-Stop for our overnight in town. Love their beer!
[DSC_0599.JPG]
This is our vacation look.
[DSC_0612.JPG]
So much fun at Short's!
[DSC_0651.JPG]
This is what a full day at the lake does to you!
[DSC_0656.jpg]
Mom and Dad at Towne Club. Something tells me when they move-up to Elk
full-time they will be visiting  alot!
[DSC_0932.JPG]
Beautiful Elk Lake at Sunset.
[DSC_0913.JPG]
A full day in the water with Uncle Nick! So much fun!
[DSC_0871.JPG]
My lazy little beanie.
[DSC_0937.jpg]
We're a Spartan family. SPARTY ON PEOPLE!
[DSC_0966.JPG]
A six-pack of Short's and sunset on a log. Doesn't get any better than
this!
[IMG_1382.JPG]
Found on the first night!
[IMG_1381.JPG]
Just stunning.
[IMG_1384.jpg]
My Lake Babies!
[IMG_1385.jpg]
Last year at this time this sandbar was COMPLETELY covered with water
and about 2 feet deep. The kids called it the baby-pool. Now it's their
cool "fort".
[IMG_1390.JPG]
Out to lunch!
[IMG_1400.jpg]
Lake Girl
[IMG_1411.jpg]
Regulars.
[IMG_1440.JPG]
More Short's....
[IMG_1430.JPG]
Floating down the river
[IMG_1431.JPG]
A whole lot of lazy!
[IMG_1442.jpg]
I have a thing for smoked fish. The best.
[IMG_1454.jpg]
Lego Carnival in TC!
[IMG_1462.jpg]
Cherry Festival Parade! Nick Lidstrom was the Grand Marshall! Go Wings!
[IMG_1469.jpg]
Miss Elk Rapids!
[IMG_1482.jpg]
Christian loved the MONSTER TRUCK!
[IMG_1493.jpg]
Visiting with Papa Jim!
[IMG_1494.JPG]
My Nana is so chic! Look at her!
[IMG_1495.JPG]
Coney's with Uncle Nick.
[IMG_1496.JPG]
The girls.
[IMG_1499.JPG]
One last good night story with Papa.
at 7/31/2012 No comments: Links to this post
Wednesday, July 25, 2012
Bilateral Bootcamp
It's time to get down to business.
We returned back from a wonderful vacation to Northern Michigan and
jumped right into our 3rd and final programming session at Hopkins.
After a quick booth test and some level changes, everything just became
brighter and more clear. Christian immediately started responding to
complex questions using just his new ear with NO visual cues. Our
audiologist had a complete conversation with him while he was just
playing with a puzzle and he responded and interacted with no problem
at all. Honestly, it never gets old and of course I was teary eyed
witnessing not just the miracle of this amazing technology but how hard
my little guy works. He's been through so much and just keeps trying
and trying.
Left ear rehab is intense right now, as it should be. Our family life
is literally revolving around getting it up an running. Here's our
chedule just for this week:
Monday: Meet for 45 minute session with county SLP to work on auditory
training
1 hour isolation using just left ear while reading books
with Mom and playing listening games
Tuesday: 1.5 hour isolation while playing board games with Mom,
auditory training and book reading
Wednesday: 1 hour isolation isolating the /s/ and /th/ (so hard for him
right now!)
Thursday: Meet for 1.5 hour session with county SLP
Friday: Meet for 1 hour session with private SLP at River School
And in between all of this, we're still trying to have a fun summer
with trips to the pool, playdates and movie time in the afternoon when
it's too hot to go outside.
at 7/25/2012 2 comments: Links to this post
Friday, June 29, 2012
All I needed to learn about parenting a deaf kid, I learned at The River
School.
I could take you on the emotional roller coaster that I rode as
Christian finished Pre-K and his time at his current school. I could go
into the details about my panic that is weirdly coupled with peace. Or
how I just looked at friends and faculty on the last day and they met
my gaze with tearful eyes as well. There's much more to this than just
what went through my heart and head on our last day. So much more.
I remember walking into school 5 years ago just praying that he would
just "fit" and that he would one day be able to talk and play with
typical pears. Christian started school at just under 17 months. He was
BARELY walking, toddling really. He was a baby. And I was this new Mom
to a little boy who was deaf. I had no idea what I was doing. In
addition to obsessing over all the new Mom things that really seem so
moot right now, I was overwhelmed and totally overcome by the intensity
and scariness of raising a deaf child. I would question myself daily
"Is this right?" "Did we make the right choice" Actually, the only
thing that I was confident that I was doing right WAS sending him to
this school.
The years went on and we both learned. Christian grew from a newly
implanted toddler to a sweet and chatty 2 year old who was already
urpassing his hearing peers in expressive language. I became a little
bit less unsure and started taking on more and more ownership of
Christian's hearing loss. It became my JOB to advocate and support
Christian. I quickly had to learn how to calm my insane case of anxiety
when Lily was born, and quietly handle that creepy let-down of not
having another deaf child.
The receptive language came, and by 3 years old he was a class leader.
He thrived being the social yet sensitive friend. Along with ownership
of Christian's hearing loss came management, I became engrossed in the
advocacy. I researched and interviewed, and took the role on as the
"Crazy Mom Who Knows Too Much". I organized fundraisers and connected
with the local Deaf community. Finally, despite the intensity, life was
getting a little bit easier. I wasn't worrying AS MUCH, and our sweet
baby girl was bringing an absolutely delectable amount of joy and
blessings into the family.
By 4 years, he was amazing everyone. Not only was he doing great things
that GREAT typical hearing 4 year old boys should be doing, but he
continued to amaze us with his ridiculous ability to gather vocabulary
and use it meaningfully. I started panicking again. Worrying about the
inevitable time that we would leave the school. I started having dreams
of his Cochlear Implant failing during his oral dissertation defense in
college. The dream when it happend on his wedding day still sticks with
me. I started fixating on all the what-ifs. Every breath I took became
a frantic search for clarity. I became obsessed with Bikram Yoga and I
tarted seeing a therapist. I took medicine to calm my anxiety. I was
able to focus after somehow finding the time to focus on myself.
And by 5, well he firmly planted himself promptly in the middle of his
class and took on the rolls of Class Clown and Protector of Girls. I
tarted looking towards the future. The intense dreams and worries of a
failure and of him fatiguing from the level that he works haunted me
every day. So, I kicked off my flip-flops and jumped right into going
bilateral. The testing, the surgery, the rehab....all of it our school
tood by our side. As fast as it happened, it was a long time coming
and we were ready for it. Rehabilitating the newly implanted ear along
with prepping to transition to Kindergarten in our public school became
my new full-time job and my new reality. And knowing we were leaving
our protective safe place was becoming more and more real.
As I walked into the school the last all-school assembly, I felt a lump
in my throat and had to choke back the tears. So many of our memories
center around that school and so many steps of our family journey with
Cochlear Implants have started there. It's bittersweet to leave a place
that not only did my son grow-up in, but I did as well. It's easy to
ee the transformation in the both of us. We're confident. We're
ecure. And we're ready for new adventures.
[DSC_0141.jpg]
Last Day of School 5.5 years old
[christian1stday.jpg]
First Day of School-17 months old
Note: If you're a parent, teacher, or family member of a child with
hearing loss and want to know more about the innovative and
ground-breaking education that The River School in Washington, DC
provides to both typically hearing and kids with hearing loss, please
comment!
at 6/29/2012 1 comment: Links to this post
Tuesday, June 26, 2012
Last Week of School
We are in the home stretch. My kid has been in school longer than any
other kid in our neighborhood and he has a serious case of Senioritis,
or Pre-Kindergartenitis...call it whatever, but he is ready to be done
and spend time at the pool and camps with his friends.
Momma, however, is in serious SERIOUS denial.
I've cried the last 2 days picking him up. Choked up, blubbering,
mess-type crying. How on earth am I going to get through our final
All-School Assembly on Thursday? I have such a mix of emotions right
now. On one hand, I am so excited to move on to the next chapter of our
journey, but on the other hand, I don't want to leave. It's my calm and
cozy place that I have spent all of my Momhood at. We've been protected
and supported in ways that most families never get a chance to
experience, let alone families with kids with Cochlear Implants.
Don't get me wrong, I've been counting down the days until our summer
can begin, when the longest drive I'll have is to Whole Foods to get
more watermelon and my kids can sleep in as long as they can. I'm
certainly not going to miss the drive in DC rush-hour traffic. And
there is something very zen about packing away the lunchbox for a
couple of months. We will be heading back up to school once a week
throughout the summer to continue Christian's new CI rehab with one of
our favorite SLPs whose been with us since he was 14 months old.
Christian's teachers gave the kids one-last PJ day yesterday and today
all of the Pre-K classes got together and had Pre-K funday, complete
with pizza, popsicles, water-balloon toss and games. Tomorrow they have
one last full day of school, and Thursday is a half-day. He's mentioned
to me a couple of times how he can't wait to be in school with Jack and
Dylan (his neighborhood best buds), but he's really going to miss his
buddies in his Cardinal class. I promised him we'll have lots of
playdates with his pre-school classmates and they will always be
friends even if they don't go to the same school. He smiled, his sweet
Christian smile and said "My old friends are going to love my new
friends".
And I'm crying again.
at 6/26/2012 1 comment: Links to this post
Thursday, June 21, 2012
Taste of Summer
We're off of school for the remainder of the week thanks to teacher
conferences and we spent 5 hours at the pool today.
Christian could hear me thanks to the Aloksak.  Lily played and played
with friends. Neither one of them complained or freaked out. They both
are getting more and more comfortable in the water (Christian seriously
will be swimming FOR REAL by the end of July. I'm convinced!) Our pool
doesn't allow floats or kick-boards so the fact that they are both in
the BIG POOL is a BIG DEAL.
My girlfriend made a cocktail run and brought back jugs of a coconut
rum drink. The kids got ice cream before dinner. We ordered 3 pounds of
chicken nuggets, served up hummus and cucumbers and they dug-in. The
Mommas were happy. Did I mention it was 100 degrees today, and I only
complained a handful of times?
We came home, did a quick dunk in the bath, and they were asleep by
7:30.
And after a much needed text conversation with my cousin...well
cousin-in-law, but whatever....I'm off to lay in bed and watch Dallas.
She's doing the same thing too, which cracks me up because we are SO
alike in so many ways.
at 6/21/2012 1 comment: Links to this post
Wednesday, June 20, 2012
Pre-K Final Report Card
So, this is a 5 page front and back document that the teachers prepare
with great care.  I just pulled it out of his backpack and have the
chills. I don't think any Mom can be more proud of her little boy than
I am right now.
Here's just a few snippets from the first sections.
1. Personal & Social Development (Self concept/Self Control/Approach to
Learning/Interaction with others/Social Problem-Solving
....Christian is a fun and energetic boy who loves playing with his
friends. One day, when it was brought to his attention that a friend
needed help, Christian said "Oh no, my buddy is in trouble!" Christian
enjoys learning with his peers, especially while looking at books and
discussing what might be happening on each page. When he has found
omething that is particularly interesting, he is often excited to
hare with his teachers about the new information he has learned.
2. Language & Literacy (Listening/Speaking/Phonological
Awareness/Reading/Writing
...Christian has an expansive vocabulary and learns new words quickly.
He often uses vocabulary used while reading books, playing in the
dramatic play, or through whole group learning activities. He often has
a pertinent comment to make and asks his friends follow-up questions
about what they are saying. Christian enjoys telling jokes and making
his friends laugh.
AND MY FAVORITE
In a noisy setting, Christian is aware that he will have more
difficulty understanding his peers. While playing blocks and cars with
a group one morning, he asked each of them to talk one at a time so he
could understand them all. He was also prompted by his teacher to
change his CI to the noise setting. Christian independently asks his
friends and teachers to repeat themselves and will ask the teacher to
reread a page of a book if he did not hear everything she said. His
curiosity and social personality motivates him to be an active part of
each group he is involved in.
If I had to pick the greatest singular achievement that we will be
taking from his school, it would be this. SELF-ADVOCACY. SELF-RELIANCE.
Oh, sweet boy....the places you will GO!
at 6/20/2012 No comments: Links to this post
Monday, June 18, 2012
Bay Love
Last weekend we took a quick day trip to our family's Bay House. It's
just under 2 hours away and every time we go I feel like we are a world
away. We can leave the hustle and bustle of city life and enjoy quiet
time as a family. There's A LOT of history on the property, knowing
that my husband, his Dad, his Grandmother, and countless other
generations of our family have sat an enjoyed the same views. I'm so
glad that my kids get to take it in too.
The humidity has quite hit the DC area yet, so we had a pleasant and
FUN day fishing, crabbing and relaxing. As soon as this kid is out of
chool we are going to be there as much as we can!
[blogger-image--1648172973.jpg]
My Bay Boy. Sitting in the shade, listening to the waves, and loving
EVERY MINUTE OF IT!
[blogger-image-762591729.jpg]
Water Ice at Sunset. Our new family tradition!
[blogger-image-368572872.jpg]
This is our little Bay Town's fancy new sign. Did you know that we're
the SPORT FISHING CAPITAL of The Chesapeake Bay? Now that's a big deal
:)
at 6/18/2012 No comments: Links to this post
SWIMMING
Christian started his swim lessons again last week---fingers crossed
that this is the summer it just CLICKS. It helps that we are going to
our club pool almost everyday now and he has LOTS of friends there to
help him along the way. Oh, and bribing with ice cream, a trip to see
Madagascar 3, and a sleep over with his buddies is helping too.
We're waterproofing his Nucleus Freedom that is OUT OF WARRANTY using
an Aloksak bag and securing it with a swim cap. So far, so good.
[blogger-image--895703345.jpg]
[blogger-image--1903333116.jpg]
Friday, June 15, 2012
Boobie Trap
"Mom, It's a Boobie Trap"
Someone has learned a thing or 2 from Uncle Nick.
[blogger-image-1834444321.jpg]
at 6/15/2012 No comments: Links to this post
Monday, June 11, 2012
The Tears Have ALREADY started.
I looked at the calendar today as I prepped for our week and realized
that Christian has just 11 school days left. 11 more days at the school
that we've been at since he was 14 months old. 11 more days at the
chool where he spoke his first sentence, learned to write his name,
and where he learned to advocate for himself. This is the school that
gave me confidence as a 1st time Mom when I doubted ever being able to
handle the challenges of raising a deaf baby. This IS the school and
the experience that changed our life.
Over the past 5 years, Christian's school has been our rock and
constant. In our ups and downs, we've ALWAYS had the faculty and
administration to lean on. In our days of uncertainty, the team would
calm our fears and show us that Christian really was capable of
ANYTHING with NO limitations. They made my life as a Mom to a kid with
Cochlear Implants just a little bit easier and little bit LESS
tressful by being THE BEST OF THE BEST.
So here I am, about ready to hop in the car to go to our last "Sound
Support" play date and meeting and I'm a mess. This group is home to
other families with children with hearing loss and they have always
been my life-line. There's been a group of us who started together and
we've leaned on one another from everything from nursing challenges to
troubleshooting processors. My Sound Support girlfriends are such a
treasure and I am really going to miss knowing that there are other
Moms, JUST LIKE ME in our new school.
I know life is going to change so much in the next 3 months. As excited
as we are to send Christian to Kindergarten with all his neighborhood
friends, I also have just as much sadness. Christian bounds through the
doors of his school everyday with friends who are typically hearing AND
friends who have CIs and Hearing Aids too. I had the comfort of knowing
he was really never alone, and that his friends in class just GOT IT.
Never once did I have to explain "What those things are" on my kids
head. His friends, their parents, their nannies....they just GOT IT.
And he just fit in....seemlessly. Next year, oh next year...my little
boy will be the only kid in a school of hundreds of typical kids with
Cochlear Implants. I'm worried he's going to be alone. I'm worried that
for the first time he may just feel different. Pile that on top of all
the logistical worries that I have just about his day-to-day stuff and
I'm literally an anxious mess.
I've got to wipe away these tears. I know somehow while I am sad, these
are also tears of joy. I wouldn't be crying these tears if my little
man didn't exceed our expectations. I wouldn't be crying these tears if
he WASN'T ready for transitioning to our neighborhood school. I
wouldn't be crying these tears if he didn't blow my mind everyday with
the things he is capable of.
Being able to be a part of this school for the past 5 years has been a
gift. It's been quite the sacrifice for our family, both financially
and logistically, yet we would do it again in a heartbeat. I'm going to
do my best to really savor these last 11 days and use them to celebrate
not just my little boy who defied the odds, but his amazing teachers
and team at his school for cheering him on every step of the way.
at 6/11/2012 No comments: Links to this post
Wednesday, June 6, 2012
IEP Update
I've been through what feels like a million of these meetings, but this
one was the most important. It was in essence the LAST final
communication before my little guy becomes a big kid starting
Kindergarten. Or so I thought.  I walked in nervous, confident, and a
bit unsure. I walked out nervous, confident and still a bit unsure.
Here's the quick and dirty:
-Our county school system stated several times that they preferred
Christian to start the year off with the FM system as they have in the
past. And just as we did in January, we declined. We presented the HINT
(Hearing in Noise Test) which findings showed that he actually could
hear better than typical peers in noise. Seriously.
-Our goals have been readjusted (and minimized) since most aren't
applicable, and pretty much include polishing up some communication
trategies and self-advocacy. It's pretty basic. We did request a
consult with the school SLP to evaluate his /s/ and /z/. Sometimes he
has a bit of a lisp.
-Christian was qualified for ESY (Extended School Year) due to his
recent implantation and activation, so we will receive 1x weekly
ervices (this is in addition to the private therapy we will continue
to do and Mommy Auditory Training Bootcamp).
Despite the tension with the whole FM system, I can't even begin to
describe how pleased I am with our county services and our school. Our
principle is very receptive and open and the Kindergarten team is
excited to work with Christian.
Oh, and Christian's current school has been nothing short of wonderful
preparing us and supporting us in this process. We had an entire
upport team armed with data. They know Christian the best, and are
constant advocates for him.
So, we have some things to tweak, but all in all it went well.
Ok, for all my Facebook friends, I did indeed choose the Lilly Pulitzer
wrap-dress for the meeting. I know you were all sitting on the edge of
your seats waiting to hear.
at 6/06/2012 1 comment: Links to this post
TODAY
Today I'm walking into a conference room at our public elementary
chool that Christian will start Kindergarten in August and putting on
my advocate hat. Today I will present data that shows Christian really
CAN do the things we say he can do. Today I will change perceptions of
Cochlear Implant children.  Today, I'm strong. Today, I'm confident.
Today, I'm going to do my best to give my little boy (who is SO ready
for this!) everything he needs, while carefully considering the things
I believe he really DOESN'T need.
Today is his day.
at 6/06/2012 No comments: Links to this post
Newer Posts Older Posts Home
Subscribe to: Posts (Atom)
[ShabbyBlogsCrazyLife.jpg]
My Photo
Christian and Lily's Mommy
I'm a 30something Mom to my two beautiful children, Christian
(6), and Liliana Grace (4) Christian was born Deaf, and was
implanted with his Cochlear Implant at 14 months of age and his
econd at 5 years old. Lily is hearing, and is a handful but a
joy in everyway! When I'm not shuttling my kids back and forth
from playdates, therapy appointments, school, and Target (we're
ALWAYS THERE!), I'm advocating for my son, and all children with
hearing loss.
View my complete profile
Resources
Turning Back Time
[Turning Back Time]
Popular Posts
River School.
Visitors
[s-event.png]
[3971]
Check out 5 Minutes for Mom
WAHM Directory
Search My Blog
Loading...
FEEDJIT Live Traffic Feed
Feedjit Live Blog Stats
Simple template. Powered by Blogger.
