Extraordinary Ears - RSS

Taylor and Lauren's Extraordinary Ears
This is story of our daughters Taylor and Lauren, both with profound
hearing loss, and the journey of getting and utilizing cochlear
implants. Both have congenital deafness due to the Connexin 26 gene
mutation.
Thursday, October 1, 2015
Hearts for Hearing Groundbreaking Ceremony
[blogger-image-343273209.jpg]
Hearts for Hearing has been working on a capital campaign to build a
new building of their own with plenty of space and sound booths for
their continued growth.  I'm so glad we were able to make it to the
groundbreaking ceremony for the new building. Hearts for Hearing​ has
been such a part of our lives for over six years... from the beginning
evaluation soon after her diagnosis of profound deafness for Taylor in
2009, and the cochlear implant surgery only 10 days later, followed by
weekly therapy visits for two years.  Then to our Lauren's birth and
deaf diagnosis at 6 days old, when they said it was okay if we cried,
they have been there through it all for us.  All of the worries, the
fears, and the successes.  The ear molds for the hearing aids, the CI
activations, the failed mappings with a stubborn toddler... I have no
doubt that our lives and the girls' successes could have been much
different if we had not gone to Hearts for Hearing early on after
Taylor's diagnosis at 12 months and continued going there.
At the groundbreaking ceremony, we saw so many key people that have
helped the girls along the way.  Dr. Wood, the surgeon who performed
the CI surgeries on both girls.  Joanna Smith, the HforH current CEO,
was Taylor's first speech pathologist/auditory verbal therapist  and
was really the first person that gave us hope that Taylor would listen
and talk someday.  She came to hospital and checked on us as Taylor was
beginning her bilateral CI surgery at 14 months, fully expecting that
our family could use some comfort and reassurance.  Tami Elder, our
current auditory verbal therapist, was there along with her family
members.  Tami has been Taylor and Lauren's AVT for so many years now;
he's practically a family member.  We also saw some old friends who we
had started the journey with - a mom with a son around Taylor's age,
whom we had gotten to know at the Listening to Littles 2-year old
weekly class that Hearts for Hearing sponsored.  Dr. Jace Wolfe, a
brilliant audiologist and researcher, has done our cochlear implant
mapping for years now; my girls think he is just a regular goofy dad
who can help them with their "ears."
[blogger-image-611455793.jpg]
The groundbreaking ceremony was an amazing moment for Hearts for
Hearing, an organization that truly transformed lives for so many
families, including mine.  I'm so thankful for them and will do
everything that I can to help the organization continue to progress.
Posted by Melinda Morgan at 10/01/2015 No comments:
Labels: cochlear implants, connexin26, Heartsforhearing
Monday, May 20, 2013
Taylor - Kindergarten IEP and Spring Sports
[blogger-image-1550593096.jpg]
Hi From Taylor!
We have recently completed Taylor's kindergarten roundup screening.
She did amazingly well, scoring 99th percentile combined score.  I have
to say this was one of those moments where I wanted to go back to my
former self, who was so worried in the year following Taylor's profound
diagnosis, and tell myself not to worry, that someday things would be
great...  It's hard to believe how far she has come since June 2009
when she was diagnosed, or activated at age 15 months.  Thankfully I am
able to use my perspective of Taylor's progress to allow me to enjoy
Lauren's natural language acquisition with her bilateral CI's and not
ruin the joy of parenting this wonderful child with the worry that we
had when Taylor was young.
The IEP meeting for her kindergarten year was a meeting that I was
anxious about because of her performance in the screening.  In spite of
the high score, we were able to keep the IEP and continue to have
Hearing Impaired Educator services and some access to the Audiologist.
The HI teacher will work with her on listening and advocacy skills.
We will have an FM system to use in the classrooms.  We are so
fortunate that there are soundfield speaker systems in every classroom
in our elementary school and the teachers are already used to wearing a
microphone.  We are so glad to have Derek's current teacher as Taylor's
teacher for the coming year.  That is a comfort to us since we have
already developed a good relationship with her over the past 9 months.
We know there may be challenges to come but we are really feeling good
about Taylor's kindergarten setup for next year.
Taylor continues to be a daredevil and a very physical little girl.
Here are some recent pictures.
[DSC01467.JPG]
Marco Island, FL Parasailing - Here's Jon with Derek (age 6) and Taylor
(age 4).
Taylor went parasailing on our spring break trip, and actually wore
her ears during it.  We did the waterproof bag, clipped the bag to her
hair, and put the swim cap on.  She was able to hear and talk the whole
time!  They saw dolphins and a sea turtle from up there (300 feet at
the highest).
We have completed spring soccer with Taylor scoring up to 3 goals in
her games.  Her team was a great little group that we had played with
in the fall too.  T-ball is now starting; we haven't quite figured out
the ears for t-ball yet.  I'm thinking we will get her own helmet and
then try to do the swimcap under it to secure the ears in place.  ??
Any advice on this?
[blogger-image--901013750.jpg]
Taylor and Lauren at the YMCA Tumbling Room
Taylor just finished her dance recital for the year.  There's nothing
cuter than 4 and 5-year old girls in their dance costumes!
[DSC_0267.jpg]
Dance Recital
I continue to be thankful for the bond that my girls have because they
both need "ears" to hear.  I hope they are able to bring strength
and advice to each other in the years to come.  There is such a bond
between them already.  The other night, Taylor was crying after her
bath, not wanting to get dressed and ran to her room.  Lauren picked up
Taylor's ears and carried them upstairs to her.  :)
[DSC_0263.JPG]
Sisters
Posted by Melinda Morgan at 5/20/2013 2 comments:
Labels: CI, IEP, Keeping CI on in sports, Kindergarten
Friday, May 10, 2013
New Words for Lauren at 21 Months
Drumroll, please....
These are all of Lauren's words at 21 months.  She doesn't say all of
them perfectly, but they are strong and consistent attempts at these
words.  We are so excited.  The hearing birthday for the left ear is 2
weeks away.
Lauren's words
Open (oben)
Ut-oh
Dog
Da-da
Nana for banana
Duck
Quack
Owl
Whoo hoo
Gah (for God) -- she tries to sing "Our God is an Awesome God"
Eye
No for nose
Grandpa
Grandma (solid attempts)
Backpack -- since big brother and big sister are going to school
Bath
Bubble
Meow
Book
Hot
Owie
Bus
Light
Drink
Mama
Ball
More
I'm sure there are more, but these were the ones I could think of.  She
is off and running with spoken language!  I am still waiting to see a
consistent name for Derek and Taylor, and our cat mikea. She calls our
dog maverick "maa".
Physically, Lauren is small (compared to how Derek and Taylor were) but
ultra coordinated. She made it up our rock climbing wall on our playset
at 20 months. We are constantly chasing her.
[DSC_0118.JPG]
Posted by Melinda Morgan at 5/10/2013 1 comment:
Labels: baby, cochlear implants
Wednesday, January 23, 2013
We finally have some good babbling!
We are so excited -- Lauren has really started babbling consistently.
She is the real age of 17 months, listening age of 8 months.  Just this
month, she has made good attempts at banana (nana), Maverick (our dog)
(maa-buh), babababa, waffle, mmmm for M&M's and lots more.  She has
been, for the most part, silent or pointing while yelling, so this
progress is most welcome.  I am around a lot of other kids around the
ame age, and although I know it is not uncommon to be quiet or
point/yell/grunt for a 17-month-old, we still hope for lots more!  We
want to know those ears are working, and working well!!
[IMG_0088.jpg]
A nose-wrinkling grin for her Daddy!
Her language comprehension seems to be progressing very nicely.  She
will point out body parts when asked; eyes, ears, mouth, belly button,
feet, etc.  Today, I asked her "what's in your mouth?" and she spit out
a clip.  :)  Oh joy!  If I ask her if she wants to eat, she will head
into the kitchen...  We are seeing so many good things.
Now, we are going to work on really expanding her language
comprehension. When Taylor was around this age, we did a program from
Cochlear called Speech Sounds.  Every week or so, we would focus on a
ound, and expose her to it with songs, toys, books, food, etc.  We are
going to try that again with Lauren.  It's a good way to make sure that
we are adding constant variety into our daily language.
As for Taylor, she is four and a half, and has her first loose tooth.
She is excited about that!  We are starting to think about
kindergarten.  She is not using an FM system or speaker system in the
preschool. I am wondering what the best approach for kindergarten in
the fall will be.  The one known factor is that since Derek is in
kindergarten, I can probably get Taylor into the same class and have a
teacher who we already have a relationship with.  She has been great to
work with so far.  Any recommendations or advice on this topic are
appreciated as I approach the IEP renewal meeting.
[DSC_0522.jpg]
Taylor rock-climbing at YMCA
Posted by Melinda Morgan at 1/23/2013 No comments:
Video from last fall
[EMBED] This is a video of Taylor and Lauren, when Lauren had been
activated for about 3.5 months. Love it!
Wednesday, December 12, 2012
Laurens book
[EMBED]
Click here to view this photo book larger
Shutterfly photo books offer a wide range of artful designs and
embellishments to choose from.
[111?pageName=sharekey&c1=photobook&c2=blogger]
Posted by Melinda Morgan at 12/12/2012 No comments:
Saturday, December 8, 2012
Stationery card
[logo.gif]
[]
Blessed Script Christmas Card
Custom Christmas cards are always available at Shutterfly.com.
View the entire collection of cards.
[111?pageName=sharekey&c1=msc&c2=blogger]
Posted by Melinda Morgan at 12/08/2012 No comments:
Thursday, November 29, 2012
Keeping those CI's on
How do we as parents keep the CI's on? That is one of the most
fundamental challenges for parents of a CI kid. If the ears aren't on,
then they aren't hearing.
My kids are all three ultra-active and I recognized this as my biggest
issue with Taylor when she was activated at 15 months. At that time, we
tarted using headbands with elastic loops seen into them, made by a
local CI grandma. These are still our go-to method with Taylor, at age
4, as well as Lauren at 15 months.
Taylor participates in lots of sports, and so far we have been able to
keep her hearing in all of them.
For dance, gymnastics, and soccer, we use our typical headband with 2
barrettes to ensure that the headband stays in her hair. This has been
ufficient, except for when she does a forward roll where her head
actually touches the mat ... If the coil pops off, she just replaces it
and goes on.
For swimming, we use one CI and make a waterproof bag for it using a
Foodsaver. There are several YouTube videos out there on how to
waterproof a CI using the Foodsaver. Anyway, we put her hair in a
regular ponytail and secure the bag in place with 2-3 barrettes. Then
we cover her head and the bag with a swim cap (Lycra, not Latex). This
works great! Diving in with flips and all, it stays in very well.
This week we are snow skiing. We do have her wear a helmet, and
basically use the swim cap as we so do with swimming to hold it in
place. We put on the ears with a headband. No waterproof bag is needed.
We do not put her hair on a ponytail though, unless it is down low at
the nape of her neck... Otherwise, the helmet wouldn't go on. So it
goes in this order: headband with Ci's, swimcap, then helmet.
Amazingly, she seems to be able to hear pretty well with the helmet on.
I hope this is helpful!
[blogger-image--1425497869.jpg]
[blogger-image--1159106593.jpg]
[blogger-image-1110842819.jpg]
Posted by Melinda Morgan at 11/29/2012 No comments:
Labels: Keeping CI on in sports
Friday, October 5, 2012
Lauren and her two ears
Lauren had her First Birthday just two days after her second CI
urgery.  She was feeling great, running around and playing with our
family members who made it to the big party and celebration.  If you
look closely at this picture, she has a bruise on her cheek, which was
left from the facial nerve monitor.
[DSC_0009.JPG]
Lauren's 1st Birthday
She has been walking really well since around 11 months.  In this
picture, you can tell - she is on the move!  We were waiting outside
for big brother Derek to get home from school.
[DSC_0017.JPG]
Lauren is on the move
[DSC_0025.JPG]
Big brother has some greeters after school
Lauren's activation on the right side was on August 30. It went so
well. When we were playing the beeps and going through the electrodes,
he would wave and acknowledge the sound right away. It has been an
easy transition to two "ears".
[DSC_0014.JPG]
Waiting with big sis Taylor for 2nd CI activation
[CSC_0027.JPG]
Activation of right CI, with Tami
We actually went back the next day to make sure the electrodes were
all set properly and gauge her reaction to sound, ensuring we didn't
ee any kind of negative feedback.
Day 2 of right CI activation
Lauren is so lucky (and Mom & Dad are so thankful) that we have a
listening coach for Lauren in big sister Taylor.  She is just the best
big sister, all around!  As a parent of a CI baby, one of the toughest
things to deal with is not being able to ask the baby -- "how does that
ound?  does it hurt?  what does wind sound like?  is that ... (fill in
the blank) too loud?  is it irritating?"  They can't speak for
themselves so we try to be especially sensitive and aware.  We are so
glad that we can ask Taylor those questions now, and that she can help
us understand what might be happening with Lauren's new "hearing."  And
we know that when they get a little older, they might feel different
and having each other's understanding and support will be a comfort.
[DSC_0020.JPG]
Taylor's ears got pierced!
Taylor got her ears pierced!!  Both sides...  it might have taken a
little coaxing and two trips to the store, but we have two pierced ears
now.  She is pretty proud!  Pre-school for Taylor is going very well.
She goes 5 afternoons per week.  She is in a local Christian preschool.
The local school district special ed coop is providing deaf education
and speech pathologist services.  She has no speech deficiencies other
than age-appropriate challenges, such as the pronunciation of L.  We
continue to work on proper word order and grammar, although those
challenges are also typical for an early 4 year old.  The deaf educator
is working on issues such as classroom acoustics, how Taylor performs
in background noise, and general language acquisition.  She is a good
resource to us, as we prepare for Taylor to be in the public school
ystem, as well as to the pre-school teachers at school.
We are filling Taylor's time outside of school with fun things such as
Gymnastics, Tumbling, Dance and Swimming lessons.  Lucky for us that
the YMCA providing these classes is only 5 minutes away; otherwise, we
would be doing too much running.  On the weekends, both Derek and
Taylor are playing soccer.  We are managing to keep the "ears" on in
all of these activities.  It takes a little creativity but the effort
is well worth it.
I continue to be amazed at the awesome responsibility we have as
parents...  as we see our 5 year old son grow, we are starting to
really have to coach through self-esteem, teamwork, confidence...  all
kinds of values-based issues that will only get tougher.  It makes the
academic learning seem easy at times.  Being a parent can be tough!
I also am absolutely impressed at the ability of the human mind to
learn.  Lauren just picks up things through observation.  Hand her a
toothbrush, and she will brush her teeth.  Hand her a hairbrush, and
he will brush her hair. If she sees a purse, she will carry it around
on her arm.  Let her walk around outside, and she will eat a rock....
Now, wait a minute?  Who did she see do that?  ha ha ha.  Babies and
the things they will put in their mouths.  But in all seriousness, she
is always watching, listening, and learning.  I have read that 90% of
language acquisition is through incidental learning, and I believe this
is accurate.  So with that in mind, I hope our whole family keeps on
being the loud, crazy communicators that we are -- Lauren will be
overwhelmed with the incidental language of love!
Posted by Melinda Morgan at 10/05/2012 1 comment:
Labels: Cochlear implant activation, cochlear implants, connexin 26,
infant toddler cochlear implant
Tuesday, August 28, 2012
Lauren's second surgery
﻿
[blogger-image-324731489.jpg]
Lauren just before her surgery
Lauren had her second surgery on August 7. It went so well! The actual
urgery took about two hours. We stayed at the hospital until about 9
hours after the surgery. We wanted to let the effects of the anesthesia
wear off and make sure she wasn't nauseous and could keep pain
medication down. All went well. That night, she ate a regular dinner
and played around, walking and crawling normally. One of the possible
ide effects is to have balance issues for a few days after the
urgery, but we didn't witness any problems with balance at all. I know
we are so fortunate that we have had 3 surgeries now, between Taylor
and Lauren, all without incident. Considering that when I found out
about Taylor's deafness and made the decision to do CI's, the surgery
was one of my biggest concerns, I now feel such a relief and want to
hare that this really was a blink in their life. And the benefits are
﻿﻿
[blogger-image--111757981.jpg]
Lauren trying to do "gymnastics" the night of her surgery
﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿
We continue to see great progress with Lauren. For the first 6-7 weeks
after activation, we used the Hanna Anderson pilot caps to keep her
hands from the CI and headband. Since then, she has really been leaving
it alone (other than the car seat where the coil gets knocked off
anyway). We actually have more trouble keeping Taylor's ears on than
Lauren, because Taylor is continuously doing cartwheels and handstands.
We are going to harness that energy and have enrolled Taylor in both
gymnastics and tumbling this fall.
Lauren's activation on the right side is tomorrow. We can't wait to see
how excited she is when she can hear with both ears!!
﻿﻿﻿﻿
Taylor starts in a new preschool next week. It will be 5 days per week
for 2.5 hours in the afternoon. Derek started kindergarten last week.
Taylor is really as bored as can be without her big brother, aka side
kick since birth... So preschool cannot get here fast enough. Every
time I turn my child over to someone new, it's an education process.
What is a CI? Can she really not hear without it but still speak
normally? Can she hear me from a distance? And wow, how does she talk
goes. I try to continually educate and promote the benefits and
absolute success of the technology in helping these kids to hear. You
never know who it might help or impact along the way. I am so proud of
Taylor and where she is at today. We are hoping for a great year!
﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿
[blogger-image--1177227727.jpg]
Derek and Taylor swimming with Grandpa
Posted by Melinda Morgan at 8/28/2012 2 comments:
educational activites cochlear toddlers
Location: Wichita Wichita
Thursday, July 19, 2012
Mama wins again!
LAUREN - One down, one to go!
It has already been 8 weeks since Lauren's activation. It has gone so
moothly. It has really felt very natural for her to begin listening.
At first, I noticed her paying attention to our voices, our dog
barking, etc. I noticed that if she heard someone laughing, she would
turn and look and usually start laughing too. If she heard a sudden
noise, she would look up and try to figure out what it was. One of the
first big moments was about two weeks post-activation - I was rocking
her to sleep for a nap while singing to her, and when I finished the
ong, she turned to look at me and see why I stopped. Such a simple
thing, yet it spoke volumes to me. Gratitude fills my heart.
She is now saying Mmmmm when she wants me and it is getting closer to
Maaama.  I love it!  She also makes a bbbb sound, aaahhh sound, and
other imitations such as sneezes, coughs, etc.  We are having a great
time playing sound games with her.  She thinks a lot of sounds are
hilarious.  I think she loves how her new "ear" helps her keep track of
where her big brother and sister are and what they are up to.
We are using a headband with loops sewn in to keep the CI in place.
Lauren can easily take it off though, so if she gets in that mood, we
put a (Hanna Anderson) pilot cap on to limit her access to the ear.
With baby eating, that usually means I am washing at least one, if not
two, pilot caps each evening to have clean and ready to go for the next
day.
Lauren started walking this week, so we are now trying to encourage her
to take more steps and gain confidence with each day.
We have Lauren's right side surgery scheduled for August 7, with
activation on August 28.  She will have a nice bandage on her head for
her 1st brithday, but we are so thankful that she is going to turn 1
with both cochlear implants surgeries completed and a lifetime of
listening ahead of her.
TAYLOR - Amazingly Brave
Taylor is doing great!  I will post a video soon of her.  She is very
into Barbie movies and loves to sing and dance along with the movies.
She is now a super swimmer.  We have perfected a waterproofing CI/swim
cap method that allows her to keep an ear on to hear when she swims
with us.  Taylor started gymnastics last week...  so far, we haven't
had any retention issues because we are using the headband.  If we do,
I think I'll try using the swimcap to really hold the coils on well.
Over the weekend, we went to Branson and to Silver Dollar City.  Taylor
and big brother Derek decided they are "big kids" and wanted to ride
the big rides.  She was tall enough with an adult, and rode the big
roller coasters (PowderKeg), the log ride, another roller coaster,
etc.  You name it, they rode it.  It was great fun for our family!
Posted by Melinda Morgan at 7/19/2012 No comments:
Recent Pictures
Click here to view these pictures larger
[111?pageName=sharekey&c1=pictures&c2=blogger]
Thursday, May 24, 2012
Lauren's Cochlear Implant Activation
Lauren's cochlear implant activation on the left side was yesterday.
She did very well. We were able to get a response from her and set the
lower limit thresholds with beeps... Then the fun part where we got to
talk to her for the first time. It was a breathtaking moment for all of
us. She was just curious and had an amused look on her face. Big
difference from Taylor's crying when she was activated at 15 months. I
think a part of that was that Lauren was only 9.5 months, and Lauren
had always worn hearing aids... She at least knew there was such a
thing as sound, although it had been very far and distant. Channel 4 in
Oklahoma City filmed the activation because it was the earliest surgery
and activation ever done in Oklahoma. Here is a link to the new story:
http://on.kfor.com/0k3t6vT Youngest Okla. baby to get gift of hearing
Taylor and Derek were so excited to see Lauren her new "ear.". What a
family moment! We are going to post more pictures later, but we are
moving over this weekend. I can't wait to see what the next year has in
tore for us. Lauren will be learning to listen, and eventually speak.
We are thankful beyond words.
Posted by Melinda Morgan at 5/24/2012 2 comments:
Labels: Cochlear implant activation, connexin 26, infant toddler
cochlear implant, lumps around cochlear implant
Monday, April 30, 2012
Taylor's Turn
I really wanted to focus on catching you all up on Taylor.  We're going
to have lots to come on Lauren, since her first CI surgery is only 8
days away.
Taylor has had quite a year!  She has been in the special ed preschool
here in town this year.  She loves going to school and seems to have a
great time.  She sees the deaf educator twice a week and has speech
twice a week during her preschool time.  We have all seen great
improvement in her articulation.  She has just learned so much.  We are
now 5 weeks away from turning 4 years old.
We did some testing around the 2 year, 6 month listening age mark.  For
the Expressive Vocabulary Test and the PPVT, she tested like the
average 5 yr 7 mo to 6 year old, respectively, or in the 99th
percentile.  Amazing. I never would have believed it possible three
years ago.  What a blessing in my heart as we approach Lauren's
urgery.
What a year "3" has been!  We celebrated her 3rd birthday at Table Rock
Lake and Branson.  We had family birthday parties at the lake.  We rode
go-carts and waterslides in Branson, rollercoasters at Silver Dollar
City, and took a skiboat out of the lake.  The girl is fearless!  Last
ummer, just as she turned three, she was doing dives and flips into
the pool.  We utilized a water-proofing and swim cap method for her to
use so that she could keep at least one CI on while swimming.  It was a
great summer.
We took a family ski vacation in January.  Taylor went to ski school
two days, and skiied with us another 3 days.  She seems to be a born
kiier.  I'm going to have to take some lessons myself so that she and
Derek don't pass me up in a couple of years.
We are moving to a suburb of Wichita next month, so new schools are
being explored.  The IEP renewal meeting is scheduled for May 11.  Next
year, we are planning to have her go to a wonderful Christian
pre-school for three half-days per week and supplement with some
AVT/speech services.  We did her testing for the new school district
that we are moving to last week, and she did exceptionally well.  I
think I know more about what to ask for...  we'll see.  As a parent, I
am continually learning more about how to advocate for her and how to
describe her uniqueness.
Sometimes I wish the CI's were invisible.  I don't want CI's to affect
other's perception of Taylor.  Especially in the academic setting, I
don't want the visual reminder to cause teachers to underestimate her
abilities.  I was really nervous about that last year as she entered
the public school system.  I'm not sure what their (the teachers)
perception of her was at time.  I do know that now they realize and
acknowledge how well she is doing.  I'm thankful to the wonderful
ladies that have worked with her this year - Misti, Deb, Ani, Brittney
and the para's too (wish I knew all of their names).
I have a feeling it won't be too long before Taylor wishes they were
invisible.  The other day, she said "Mommy, when I grow up, I won't
have 'ears' anymore."  I hope we find a way to always make it positive
as she grows.  Even as a toddler/pre-schooler, she is obsessed with
growing up and always talking about what that means -- getting married,
having a baby (named Lauren), being a doctor (like her daddy), wearing
makeup (like her mommy)...  you name it, she's thought of it.  That
day, she had noticed that she had 'ears' and I didn't.  We make the
'ears' as cute as possible, with all of the Cochlear decorative covers
and headbands matched to her outfits.  We'll talk through it more when
the time comes.  For now, she's pretty excted that her little sister is
getting ears just like hers.
My favorite words to describe Taylor:
Loving
Brave
Beautiful
Brilliant
Fun
Generous
Stubborn
[_DSC1438.jpg]
Rockstar
[IMG_5319.JPG]
Taylor with her fish she caught and a turtle at her feet
[IMG_5285.JPG]
Taylor and Aunt Melissa
[IMG_1783.JPG]
Taylor and our nanny Sheena
Posted by Melinda Morgan at 4/30/2012
Labels: Cochlear implant activation, cochlear implants, congenital
deafness, connexin 26, infant toddler cochlear implant
Thursday, March 8, 2012
Loving Lauren - Countdown to CI #1
We have had hearing aids since Lauren was about 3 weeks old. We put
them on her every day consistently, although it has gotten harder and
harder to get her to leave them alone.
The hearing aids are Phonak Naida, very powerful but not overly large
HA's. They were loaned to us by Hearts for Hearing.  Thank you!  Since
it was known right away that Lauren would ultimately need cochlear
implants, this is an interim solution.  Hearts for Hearing attempts to
provide hearing aids to families who are residents of Oklahoma through
donations.  In Kansas, or at least in the Wichita area, hearing aids
can be provided through the Children's Miracle Network funding.
Hearing aids are about $1600, so not a small expense. For kids who are
going to get CI's in a few months, it makes sense to take a loaner
approach.
[IMG_4418.JPG]
Lauren's first hearing aid fitting
We have had at least one set of earmolds each month. To keep the
hearing aids on her head, we originally started out using these little
dual-sided sticky tapes called Stick n Stays (made specifically to fit
the hearing aids). They are pretty pricey. For the past couple of
months, we have switched over to lingerie tape. Ahh, yes, apparently
there are many uses for lingerie tape. We are going through it pretty
fast because Lauren rips them out about as fast as we can get them put
in. It started when she was about 3.5 months old. She has since
perfected the technique. I think she knows at this point that she can
get our attention if she does that. Sometimes she uses the earmold as a
chew toy if we can't get it from her fast enough.
[IMG_4867.JPG]
Lauren getting earmolds
[IMG_4868.JPG]
Lauren in Auditory Verbal therapy
We have done sound booth testing twice with Lauren.  It seems like she
might have responded to sound at around 120 dB, but at that point, it
could be vibration....  nevertheless, we are seeing minimal or no
response with the hearing aids.
We are anxiously awaiting the first CI surgery.   We expect it to be in
mid-May, barring any surprises.  That will be at 9 months of age.  We
have talked with our audiologist, and should have the first activation
within two weeks.  :)  Big Smile!  We can't wait for that day.  With
Taylor, her surgery was bilateral at 14 months, but the activation
wasn't for five long weeks after the surgery...  it didn't have to be
that long, but all of the audiogists schedules were full, so we had to
be patient.
We had an MRI for Lauren as a prerequisite for surgery.  All of the
anatomy was normal and there is no other pre-surgery requirement for us
beyond insurance pre-approvals.
[IMG_4879.JPG]
Lauren on the day of her MRI with our friend Dr. Jackson
So, although we have a long road ahead of us, Lauren will have access
to sound a full 5.5 months earlier than Taylor did...  and considering
how well Taylor is doing, I am thrilled to know that Lauren's potential
hould be unlimited.
[IMG_4865.JPG]
Taylor and our AVT Tami
Big brother Derek loves Lauren.  He's never too busy to give her a kiss
on the head as he runs by.  He has asked some questions about her ears.
Now, he's figured out that Taylor's ears and Lauren's ears aren't like
his, and he knows that Lauren will eventually have the cochlear
implants.
[IMG_4593.jpg]
Derek and Lauren
Taylor is about the best 3-year old big sister that I could have
imagined.  She dotes on Lauren, is sad and tries to get us to make her
feel better when she is crying.  She is around Lauren so much that
during the couple times that we have left them with a babysitter,
Lauren does much better if Taylor is there with her.  When Taylor's not
in the room with the babysitter, Lauren gets upset.  As I reflect back
on Taylor's time as a baby, I realize she was probably the same way
with Derek.  Other than with our every day nanny, I only remember
leaving Derek and Taylor with a babysitter once, when he was 2 and she
was 10 months.  She got really upset because he was scared and upset.
[IMG_0084.JPG]
Siblings are the Best!
As a mother, I am so thankful that my children have each other.
Siblings are the best support network.  They learn from each other,
play together, and most of all, love each other.
Posted by Melinda Morgan at 3/08/2012 8 comments:
Friday, January 6, 2012
Welcome to the World, Lauren!
Well, hello all.  It has been a long time since our last update.
Pregnancy, working full-time, a new baby with a 3-year old and a 4-year
old will do that to a person.
Lauren was born on August 9.  She weighed 7 lb, 5 oz and was over 20
inches long.  She looked like both her brother and her sister.  We did
the OAE a couple times in the hospital.  She didn't pass.  At 4 days
old, I did a couple unscientific tests of my own, and determined that
he was deaf as well.  Taylor's genetic testing showed that we are
recessive carriers of Connexin 26, so we knew there was a 25% chance.
We had an ABR at 6 days old and confirmed profound deafness. She had a
no response ABR, as Taylor did.
[IMG_4366.JPG]
I want to say it was easier finding out the second time around, and it
was.  But it was still hard too.  I think I cried for a few days this
time (combining all this with the post-partum hormones didn't help),
versus a few months with the diagnosis for Taylor.  When we found out
about Taylor's deafness, she was already one year old, so I was sad and
guilt-ridden about all of the baby moments when she couldn't see
me/family, but we thought she could hear us - rear-facing in the car
eat, riding in the stroller, singing to her when she was in her crib,
and so on.  I was also worried and uncertain about what Taylor's future
would be.  Now, I know there are no limits whatsoever to Taylor's
future for social, career, and recreational opportunties.
With Lauren, I cried about the times that she would miss hearing as a
baby - the lullabies and laughter of her brother and sister and the I
Love You's from Mom and Dad. Fortunately, we've been down this road
before; we had a plan before she was even born; and we get reminded
daily of the wonderful future ahead of Lauren, because we live it every
day with her big sister.  And I know those baby moments that she'll
"miss", like lullabies, etc. -- she will never know for a second that
he missed anything.
[IMG_4726.JPG]
Lauren, December 2011
When we got home on the evening of Lauren's official diagnosis, I
pulled out Taylor's baby book from birth to age 1, and looked at
picture after picture of a happy, smiling baby.  We didn't know she was
deaf at that point, and Taylor certainly didn't think she was missing a
thing!  It made me feel so much better.  Today, I am nothing but
thankful for my healthy and beautiful children.  I am grateful that we
get to parent Lauren.  I know that she will also be an amazingly
example of deafness, and overcoming challenges in general... and
through perserverance and hard work, anything is possible for these
children.  Of course, the right surgeon, mappings, and therapy all
help.  Getting them access to sound is the key, and the learning will
happen.
We have had hearing aids for Lauren since around 3 weeks of age.  I
keep them on her as much as possible.  She is almost 5 months old, so
he is awake and up more all the time, making it easier and easier.  I
have seen her respond to sound a few times, so I know they are
providing some access to sound.  To what extent, I don't know.  We know
the end result with her diagnosis is bilateral cochlear implantation.
We have met with the surgeon and are working on that timeline.  In the
meantime, if any access to sound can be provided through the hearing
aids, we are going to do our best.
[IMG_4798.jpg]
Taylor, Crazy Christmas Headband
Taylor is now 3 and a half. She has been in the local preschool since
September. She loves it and is doing extremely well. Her vocabulary is
impressive and she regularly says 7-word or longer sentences. She has
become quite the performer. She loves to have an audience so that she
can entertain by singing, dancing and telling stories. Her articulation
continues to improve. We are at the point now where almost anyone can
understand what she is saying, and certainly if they have the context
of the discussion. The funny part is that now Taylor likes to do a lot
of
[IMG_4786.jpg]
Taylor, Christmas Day 2011
[IMG_4788.jpg]
Putting on a show!
pretend-play and story-telling. So we get a lot of "well, I thought
that was what she said but I didn't think that was true..." Ahh, the
true joy of having a 3-year old. She is amazing.
A few recent examples - as we left her dance class, "Mommy, it's dark
outside. I need to turn on my flashlight so that I can see better."
"Mommy, I like your bed. I don't want to sleep in my bed -- there are
monsters in my room. I'm scared" (complete with a shudder). We are
having all of the typical discussions you would want to have with a
3-year old.
More to come soon... I won't take such a long blog-cation again.
Posted by Melinda Morgan at 1/06/2012 8 comments:
Labels: connexin 26, infant toddler cochlear implant, newborn abr
Thursday, April 21, 2011
IEP, Milestones and Moments
It's been on my to do list for about two months now to write another
blog post...  sometimes the busier we are, the more there is to write
about, but the less time there is to do the writing.
Taylor continues to progress very well.  Just in the past week, she
ordered her own Sprite when we were at a restaurant.  My phone was in
my purse between the two of us at the restaurant.  When it rang, she
heard it first and said "Mommy's phone."  We had a mapping recently and
he was able to detect sound down to 5 dB.  It was a sound I barely was
able to detect.  Absolutely amazing!
So that brings me to the current challenge - Taylor is six weeks away
from turning 3, so we are going through the IEP process with the local
chool district.  Derek has gone to a local church preschool for the
past year.  He is currently 4, so still has one more year of preschool.
We considered sending her to the preschool that he has been attending.
Our local school district has a preschool for special needs children
that starts at age 3.  We observed those two classrooms and tried to
get a feel for what it was like and how they compare.  We feel that the
chool district's preschool is going to be the best place for Taylor.
There is a special ed teacher plus multiple para's, which gets the
adult to student ratio down to 1:4.  In the church preschool, there is
one teacher for 12 students.  The school's program allows us access to
the speech pathologist, audiologist, deaf educator, and it is also in
the same building and on the same schedule as the class that Derek can
attend.
But what do we put on the IEP?  She hears within normal levels... even
in restaurants or other loud settings, we see her respond to sounds at
least as well as we do (if not better).  So she's technically deaf, but
hears very well and doesn't need to read lips or have an FM system.
Her language comprehension is on track and age-appropriate.  Her
expressive language is age-appropriate as well, and her articulation
continues to improve.  Any advice from other parents would be great!
Tonight, she said to me "I'm ready to go watch a movie."  All of those
words!  What a sentence.  We've been trying to encourage her to get the
"little" words in there, such as to, a, on, the, etc.  We have been
working with her on past tense and prepositions.  She gets it, but
unfortunately she has to speak the English language, which means the
rules don't always apply.  For example, she said "I find-ed it!"  I'm
excited that she made it past tense, but now have to correct her with
"You found it!"  :)
[IMG_3638.jpg]
We have taken a couple family trips since the last blog post.  On our
ki trip, we tried to get Taylor to ski, and asked her if she wanted to
be a "ski bunny".  She replied that she wanted to see the bunny ski.
Silly us!  She wears a dress or skirt almost every day -- we had to
force her to wear sweats or jeans there.    Derek is usually a little
more reserved than Taylor, but we were able to get him on the slopes
all 3 days.  What a good sport!
[IMG_3636.JPG]
We went to Orlando last week for our early summer vacation, since we
have baby #3 on the way.  Taylor swam like a fish, but got a little too
comfortable having her ears off.  She can now tell us whatever she
needs to -- like "I want a drink"... "not that drink"...  "apple
juice"... and "I need a towel!"  Why would she need to hear us say
things like "don't jump in from there!" and "it's time to come inside"?
We sign minimally and I used it as much as I could for the times that
he was in the pool.  It made me wish I knew more signing, but I was
also impressed that she could read my lips (and expressions) quite
well.  It felt a little like charades at times.  We are a family that
likes to swim and boat a lot.  I realize that I am going to have to
improve our family's signing in order to make those times a little more
enjoyable (for the parents...  I think Taylor loved not having to
listen to us for a while!)
[IMG_3803.JPG]
Magic Kingdom carousel
[IMG_3782.JPG]
Magic Kingdom
[IMG_3777.JPG]
Downtown Disney
Posted by Melinda Morgan at 4/21/2011 2 comments:
Tuesday, February 8, 2011
Genetics of Deafness
[Picture+016.jpg]
Taylor has Connexin 26.  This means that Jon and I are recessive
carriers of Connexin 26.  What is Connexin 26?
Connexin 26 (Cx26) is a protein found on the (GJB2) gene and is the
most common cause of congenital sensorineural hearing loss. Connexin 26
mutations are responsible for at least 20% of all genetic hearing loss
and 10% of all childhood hearing loss. In some ethnic populations, more
than 80 percent of cases of nonsyndromic recessive deafness result from
a mutated Connexin 26 gene. Children born with bilateral (both ears)
evere to profound sensorineural hearing losses are typically referred
for genetic testing for Connexin 26 mutations.
Connexin 26 mutations are genetically transmitted from parent to child
in a recessive manner, which means that an affected individual must
inherit one copy of the non-functioning gene from each parent. Carriers
who only have one copy of the gene (i.e. one normal gene and one
mutated gene) do not manifest any of the signs of the condition, but
have a 1 in 2 chance of passing on the defective gene to their children
(who would then also be carriers only), and a 1 in 4 chance of having
an affected child if the other parent is also a carrier. This explains
how Derek can hear perfectly, as Jon and I do.
Connexin 26 mutations are non-syndromic, meaning that the mutation
produces only isolated hearing loss. There is NO increased risk for
other medical problems that are commonly associated with hearing loss
uch as blindness, thyroid problems, kidney problems, or balance
disorders. However, there is in a minority of cases a higher incidence
of skin disorders in patients with a Connexin 26 mutation.
This is the Best Part of knowing it's Connexin 26!  No associated
issues with the deafness!
Connexin 26 mutations produce a pre-lingual hearing loss, because it
affects the child before they are old enough to develop speech.
Why do we need Connexin 26 to hear?
The GJB2 gene contains the instructions for manufacturing a number of
proteins, including Connexin 26. Connexin proteins in general are
called “gap-junction proteins” which are necessary for cells to
communicate with each other. Without sufficient levels of Connexin 26,
the potassium flow from hair cells in the cochlea is disrupted,
resulting in extremely high levels of potassium in the Corti s organ,
leading to the profound sensorineural hearing loss. Connexin 26
mutations occur primarily in Caucasians, Ashkenazi Jews, and some Asian
populations.
This seems like old news, since we found out about this with Taylor
within a month or so of finding out she was deaf.  Now, we have another
baby on the way and the worry starts anew in that this time we know
there's a 25% chance.  Thankfully, we know what to do and how to find
out this time...
I pulled this information from the California Ear Institute website.
Harvard's Genetics of Deafness center has a great pamphlet of
information that we found to be helpful when we confirmed the Connexin
26.
http://hearing.harvard.edu/info/GeneticDeafnessBookletV2.pdf
Posted by Melinda Morgan at 2/08/2011 4 comments:
Older Posts Home
Subscribe to: Posts (Atom)
Taylor, Spring 2013
Subscribe To
[arrow_dropdown.gif] Posts
[subscribe-netvibes.png] [subscribe-yahoo.png] [icon_feed12.png] Atom
[arrow_dropdown.gif] All Comments
Search This Blog
Loading...
Followers
About Me
My Photo
Melinda Morgan
View my complete profile
Blog Archive
Ethereal template. Powered by Blogger.
