Extraordinary Ears - RSS

Taylor and Lauren's Extraordinary Ears
This is story of our daughters Taylor and Lauren, both with profound
hearing loss, and the journey of getting and utilizing cochlear
implants. Both have congenital deafness due to the Connexin 26 gene
mutation.
Wednesday, December 29, 2010
2010 in Review
[IMG_3202.jpg]
What a difference a year makes!
Last December, Taylor had been hearing only 3 months and her main word
at that point was "Mama."
This December, I find it hard to list a word that she couldn't say.
Some of her accomplishments over the past year include:
go?" "Where is my Jacket?"
Cookies.
mean car, funny Daddy)
at this point)
Cows, Horses, Boots, etc.
dancing.
The list goes on and on. Here are a few recent videos of Taylor.
Our Little Dancer (October 2010)
[EMBED] video
Repeating (and Anticipating) Ling Sounds in Therapy (October 2010)
As I reflect on the past year, I am thankful for the therapy and
ervices that we have received from Hearts for Hearing in Oklahoma City
and Via Christi in Wichita.  I am thankful for flexible work schedules
for both my husband and I that have allowed us to get Taylor to weekly
appointments for the past year.  I have greatly appreciated my
husband's parents and sisters, who have helped us with babysitting,
meals, and a place to stay during our trips to Oklahoma City.  The Blog
Comments along the way have been a welcome surprise!  I'm so glad that
Derek has been a good sport in this past year, helping Taylor to learn
new words, helping to keep track of the "ears" when they fall off, and
celebrating with us by announcing "Mom, Taylor Said XXX!"  I'm grateful
to have a husband (10 Years Today!) who was willing to sacrifice, work
and worry along with me.  And most of all, I'm thankful for Taylor,
whose wonderful enthusiasm and attitude have allowed her to excel with
language in spite of the challenge of deafness.
[IMG_3348.JPG]
[IMG_3203.JPG]
Posted by Melinda Morgan at 12/29/2010 2 comments:
Sunday, November 7, 2010
Taylor is a Tough One! Subtitle: Don't Mess with My Brother
[Derek+Taylor+Bath+BW.jpg]
Ahhhh, immunizations.  Is there anything less enjoyable for a parent?
For both kids, I've taken them to the vast majority of their
immunizations.  Dad's turn!  This past week, Jon had an afternoon open
and decided to take the kids in for their flu shots.  Derek also needed
another immunization, for a total of two shots.
Jon takes the kids in together to the shot room.  Three nurses come
in.  Two have syringes; the other is there to help hold Derek.   Jon
and that nurse are holding Derek down, with him screaming his little
head off.  Right as the other nurses try to give Derek his shots,
Taylor decides to take action.  She screams "NOOOOO" and rips one of
the syringes out of his leg.  Derek got a 3-inch scratch on his leg and
we're not entirely sure if he got the flu shot as intended.  Jon had to
go after Taylor and attempt to confiscate the syringe and needle, which
he somehow bent and did not want to relinquish.  Needless to say,
Taylor had to get her own flu shot after that and I'm sure she didn't
go quietly.  Derek was too busy nursing his own wounds to attempt to
rescue her.  Dad was a little frazzled when he called me to tell me the
tory.
[Derek+pushing+Taylor+Swing.jpg]
Aren't siblings the best?  I love that Taylor is protective of Derek.
Don't worry, Derek - your little sister will defend you.  I have 3
isters, and I remember more than a few times that I took on a battle
on their behalf.  We hope someday that Derek will have it in him to
help out when the other kids notice Taylor's "ears"... although
I'm quite sure that she'll be taking care of herself.  My little
two-year-old tried to take on 4 adults to defend her brother.  What a
tory!
[Derek+Taylor+truck.JPG]
Posted by Melinda Morgan at 11/07/2010 1 comment:
Mom's Turn - Traveblog
Well, I've taken quite a vacation from this...  Life has been crazy for
us lately, and though I've had many blog ideas in the past month, I
haven't been able to get them posted.  I have been traveling
extensively for work, the only upside from that being that I've
accumulated mileage status on Delta such that I'm getting free
upgrades.  Sweet!  Warm towel?  Yes, please...  Would you like
omething to drink? Yes, please...  Another bag of peanuts?  Sure.
Last April (2009), we began having issues with a particular customer in
Miami, Florida.  Since then, my business travel has really picked up.
Here is a list of the travel that I've had since April 2009.  A few of
these are personal; most of them are business... and interspersed with
these trips are the weekly trips to Oklahoma City for Taylor's
therapy.
Miami
Atlanta
Columbia, SC
Cary, NC
Phoenix
Orlando
Las Vegas
Branson
Denver
Jacksonville, FL
Kansas City
Birmingham, AL
Chicago
Sacramento, San Francisco, Napa, Carmel
Tampa
Dallas
Jacksonville
Milwaukee
Miami (4 times in 5 weeks)
Canon City & Breckenridge
And this week, I am headed to Detroit.
Good thing I broke down and ordered a Samsonite Spinner.  I have
calluses on my hands from dragging my suitcase and laptop bag through
the airport.
Samsonite xSpace 21.5" Expandable Spinner Carry-On in MARS Red
Posted by Melinda Morgan at 11/07/2010 No comments:
Sunday, September 19, 2010
Lumps around the CI
Last Thursday, I took Taylor back to the Hough Ear Institute.  We
always try to watch the implant area closely for redness or irritation.
Occasionally, infections can occur.  Taylor's dad noticed when putting
on the coil that there was a lump right below the CI on her head.  It
felt like a cyst.  We were able to get right in with our surgeon and
had him take a look.  He found two lumps, and started asking me about
bug bites, etc. because he thought it was swollen lymph nodes
associated with a skin irritation.  I remembered that while we were on
vacation, my mom had put Taylor's hair in pigtails and we found a
little seed tick on the back on her head near that area.  It was from
that tick!!  I hate ticks but what a celebration to know that all is
well with the cochlear implant.  :)
Posted by Melinda Morgan at 9/19/2010 No comments:
Labels: lumps around cochlear implant
One Year Earniversary and Conversations with Taylor
We recently passed the one-year mark since Taylor's bilateral CI
activation.  What a year it was!  We made at least 40 trips to Oklahoma
City for therapy and mapping appointments.  That would be about 320
hours in the car and 19,000 miles on the road.  I can pour chocolate
milk in a sippy cup and hand out snacks while driving on the
Interstate...  and I can really extend an arm to save the CI's from
being dismantled when boredom takes over.  I think I've put off writing
this blog because the one year anniversary of CI's requires a special
note and brings back a lot of emotion from that time one year ago when
I wrote "Just as You Are...", hoping for so much, but content with my
wonderful little deaf girl as well.
Taylor's expressive language is exploding right now, as Derek's did
after his second birthday.  She is getting pronouns - will look at a
picture of herself and say "me."  She will hold the camera and say
"cheese!"  I can get her to "parrot" me. For example, when reading an
alphabet book recently, I would say a letter and she would attempt to
repeat it before I went on to read the dialogue associated with that
letter.  She can point out almost all colors when we name them, and can
ay most of them herself.  A recent shopping trip went like this --
"Look! Yellow!  Blue, Green, Red, White."  She identified the colors to
me as she found them.  She will ask for a bath before bedtime and a hot
dog if she is hungry (her favorite food).  She is also into counting
till, and now she makes it to about six.
We can have conversations, which is really fun.  On Saturday, I asked
her if she wanted to watch a movie. She said "Tutu movie" --translation
- her ballerina movie.  I looked in the cabinet and it wasn't there so
I asked her where it was.  She said, "Right here, Come on" and then
walked into my bedroom to show me it.
Here are some recent vacation pictures.
[IMG_2784.JPG]
Swimmers!
[IMG_2773.JPG]
Helping Daddy Drive the Boat
[IMG_2786.JPG]
A good place for a nap
[IMG_2746.jpg]
I love to Swing!
[IMG_2743.JPG]
Derek Loves to Swing too!
[IMG_2738.JPG]
Check out my Barbie fishing pole.
Sunday, August 15, 2010
Confidence!
[260+ek+5x7.jpg]
What's it mean to be a good Mom?  Or a good Dad?  What determines
"Success"?  One of my most important parenting goals is to raise
children who can go out into the world with confidence.
[DSC00212.JPG] I had a great teacher of confidence and self-esteem - my
Mom.  From my earliest memories, I remember that if I ever expressed
any self-doubt, my Mom would reassure me and not let me put myself
down.  As we drove down the road when I was 3 or so, I was reading the
Speed Limit signs, Stop signs, etc.  My mom said something about me
"reading".  I said "I can't read!"  She said, "Yes, you can!  You're
reading the signs right now!" And I realized, sure enough, Mom was
right.  That was the beginning of how my Mom taught me to have
confidence.  From water-skiing at age seven, to entering spelling bees
and track meets, taking gymnastics, and playing softball, any time I
thought I couldn't do it, wasn't good enough, or that someone else was
better, my mom would let me know that I could do anything I wanted to.
Somewhere along the way, it worked.  My sisters and I are all doing
pretty well now.  Thanks MOM!
[DSCF0510.JPG]
Taylor swimming at Papa and Grandma's House
As a parent, any time your child faces a challenge, you have a choice
to make...
do you coddle them in case they fail and get hurt?  or do you encourage
them and let them know that you have confidence in them to be
uccessful?
[DSCF0509.JPG]
Derek swimming at Papa and Grandma's house
In early life, these are usually physical challenges...  the first
teps, first climbs, sitting in a big chair rather than the high chair,
going down stairs, riding a tricycle, swimming, riding a bicycle with
training wheels, doing a somersault.  Every single one of these is an
opportunity to instill confidence in your child.  Mastering physical
challenges in early childhood helps a child gain self-esteem that will
translate across all of life's greater challenges.
[IMG_2692.JPG]
Derek on the trampoline
[IMG_2575.JPG]
Taylor at swimming lessons, June 2010
[DSCF0455.JPG]
Derek hanging out on Papa's Ranger
[IMG_2615.JPG]
Derek & Taylor in the airplane to Taylor's therapy appt
[IMG_2709.JPG]
Taylor doing the Trampoline Bungee at A Grape Event, Hearts for Hearing
fundraiser at Plymouth Valley Cellars
Posted by Melinda Morgan at 8/15/2010 No comments:
Little Miss Manners
[Jun-Jul+09+176.jpg]
Taylor's surgery was one year ago this week.  That was the scariest,
most exciting day in my life.  If it's possible to feel a mix of
accomplishment, dread, worry, elation, agony, and anticipation, all
rolled up into one big ball of nerves, that was surgery day for me.
Taylor's Dad, on the other hand, was pretty calm, all things
considered.  He does surgery for his profession, so it wasn't as
intimidating for him as it was for me.
Some friends of ours have a surgery day coming up soon for their little
guy.  They came to visit us recently and we tried to prepare them and
reassure them of the good things in store for them and their son.
Thinking of how far we have come in this past year brings tears of joy
to my eyes.  Sharing Taylor's successes with another family was so
wonderful.  If we helped them in any way worry less, hurt less, or know
that their son will have an amazing life, then we are thrilled to be
able to do that.
These are some of Taylor's recent accomplishments:
Burp, saying "excuse me"  (She must have gotten that from her father.)
Sneeze, babysitter says "bless you", Taylor replies "thank you!"
At a drive-in restaurant, a guy walks by and she says "Who's that?"
followed by "Where's my Hot Dog?"
She is doing lots of requesting, mainly around food.  "Hot dog, apple
juice, candy, drink"
Last night, she smelled my glass of wine and said "Mommy juice."
Exactly right and stay away, please!
There are also many questions.  "Where'd Daddy go?"  "Where's Derek"
"What's that?"
I'm waiting for the "Why"'s to begin.  No hurry there.  We're in a
tage of "MINE"!  If Derek or any other child touches Taylor's food,
toys, chair, shoes, etc. (on down the list), there are a flurry of
MINE's that come out of her mouth.  Pretty typical of a 2-year old.
I have to admit that we as parents have been a little softer on Taylor
than we were on Derek for that kind of behavior.  Let's face it... if
he didn't hear until she was 15 months, we had to give her some
catch-up time before we felt like she understood at her appropriate age
level what we were saying.  Then, we went through a period of feeling
glad she could say anything, even if it was "No" and "Mine" over and
over again.   Now, Taylor Kay, I have to warn you -- Mommy and Daddy
know you know what we're saying and and we are going to be tough
critics from now on!!   Love, Your MOM and DAD (not softies)
[227+ek+8x10_2.jpg]
Tuesday, July 20, 2010
Taylor's Tribute Video 2nd Bday
[EMBED]
Posted by Melinda Morgan at 7/20/2010 No comments:
Monday, July 12, 2010
Summer Fun
Summer has been a busy time at our house! It is just flying by.
[IMG00012.jpg]
We got the rechargeable battery packs for Taylor’s Nucleus 5
processors. They are the exact same size as the regular battery packs,
with them. Saturday was the best day! We got to let Taylor go
wimming/splashing in a small pool for hours and hours with our
neighbor’s grandkids, with her ears on! No problem, no (well, minimal)
worries. With the new rechargeable batteries, they are approved to be
water-submersible. At this point, Taylor doesn’t go under water. She
runs and splashes around in the pool. Being able to have her “ears” on
puts us both more at ease.
We did swimming lessons the week before the 4th of July. Both Derek and
Taylor did really well. Derek, at 3.5 years, is swimming around really
well with his life jacket on. Taylor, at just over 2, is really brave
and will jump off the diving board or into the pool from the side. She
has a harder time controlling her swimming movements with only the life
jacket on if no one is holding the jacket. But the best part is, they
both love swimming and playing in the water.
We went to see my parents for the 4th of July. I have 3 sisters and
they were all there with their husbands, kids and Yorkies… we are a
Yorkie family. One of my sisters just got a new puppy. Her name is Kona
and she is adorable.
[Kona.JPG]
Taylor knew she was a “baby” puppy and went easy on her thankfully.
Maverick, our Yorkie, usually is getting carted around and chased. He
gets away from her more easily than Mikea, our cat. Mikea will
amazingly put up with quite a bit of handling from Taylor and Derek.
[kidsss.jpg]
Taylor keeps adding words, including tractor (followed by Yeah!) and
more food words, more often.  i.e.Cookie, Candy, Hot Dog, etc. She is a
real eater and gets pretty excited about her meals and snacks.  She
also knows her manners and that if she really wants something from
Mommy, "Ppppleaase." She's got that one down!
Taylor has had so many new cool experiences this summer.  She spent the
weekend at Papa's farm and got to help feed the cows.  She has ridden
in a tractor and a combine.  Loved that.  She has gone to Tanganika
wildlife park near Wichita, where she fed lemurs and climbed to (I'm
told) the tallest slide ever.  I'm hoping to add some pictures of that
oon.  Our family is pretty active and outdoorsy in general, and we
eem to never be indoors during the summer.  But when we are, Taylor
has mastered riding her tricycle.  It is so cute.  Of course, as with
all of her toys, they are old news for big brother Derek until she
likes them... then he wants to fight to get them back.  However, with
all of this outdoor fun, maybe we should be reading more with
Taylor...  but I know that all of the outdoor experiences -- watering
flowers/spraying our dog Maverick, ant-stomping, flower picking --
create learning opportunities as well.  As always, we are thankful to
have Derek as her big brother and role model.  We hope that she
continues to learn from him, just not every little thing he does.
You'll see what I mean....
[IMG00007.jpg]
Posted by Melinda Morgan at 7/12/2010 No comments:
Labels: educational activites cochlear toddlers
Tuesday, June 29, 2010
Rechargeables! Yahoo!
So, big news!  I found out that the Nucleus 5 rechargeable battery
packs have been approved by the FDA...  last week.  They are approved
to be water-submersible.  Cochlear should start sending them out soon!
Just in time for swimming season --- nah, probably not, but one can
hope.
Speaking of swimming, Taylor is becoming more of a swimmer.  She is in
wimming lessons this week.  She really likes playing in the water, but
it is going to be a challenge to help her learn how to swim until she
can wear her ears in the water.  She is sooooo observant though - she
already does a pretty good job of moving herself around wearing her
infant life jacket.  Last weekend, we swam all weekend in the
grandparents' pool.  She got a lot of practice.
Taylor had her 4th mapping appointment last Thursday.  It went really
well.  The audiologist was able to map 7 electrodes on the right side
and 5 electrodes on the left, interpolating to the other electrodes
(there are 22 on each side.)  After her mapping, we went in the
oundbooth.  Taylor was able to respond to sounds at 10 dB.  A normal
hearing person begins to hear sound between 0 and 20 dB.  From a noise
level perspective, she can hear very quiet sounds.
Taylor's latest skill is counting -- sometimes we say "one, two" and
he adds the "three." Sometimes she says "one, two, three" with us.
When we ask her how old she is, sometimes she says "two" while holding
up four fingers. Other times, she says "three!" She just likes saying
Three. Usually it's followed by a jump or somersault. One, two, three -
Jump! One, two, three - somersault! There's always a lot of physical
activity happening in our house.
We have been doing Y week for the last couple of weeks.
http://www.cochlearamericas.com/PDFs/Speech_Sounds_Y_Semivowel.pdf
I find it interesting that y and qu sounds are both included in the Y
week.  Some good ones:  Yum-yum, Vacuum, Tortilla, Quesadilla.
Currently, hot dogs are out of favor and quesadillas are Taylor's
current fave.  She even tries to say it.  I'd say she gets the number
of syllables right, but that's it.
She has started saying more words, including Me, Mine, Tay (as she
points at herself). One, Two, Three.
Cookie, Pizza, a lot of these she has been saying for a while.  There
is more and more every day.
At every therapy appointment, the therapist goes through the Ling
ounds and asks Taylor to let us know if she heard them.  Aa, ee, oo,
mm, ss, and sh.
http://www.advancedbionics.com/UserFiles/File/Ling_Six_Sound_Check-6.pd
f
Taylor has started imitating the sounds back to the therapist.  She
even covers her mouth to the hide the lip position and movement.  It is
too cute!
Posted by Melinda Morgan at 6/29/2010 No comments:
Labels: educational activites cochlear toddlers, ling sounds
Thursday, June 10, 2010
W Week and what? So many words...
We did "W' week for the past two weeks.  It has been fun!
http://hope.cochlearamericas.com/sites/default/files/Speech_Sounds_W_Se
mivowel.pdf
Wow!  is a favorite word of Taylor's.
Some of her new words and phrases are:
Where are you?
Right there.
Sheena
Come here.
Choo choo train
Love you
What's that?
Candy
Cereal
Did you notice that?  She's adding more verbs!  Yeah!
We had her second birthday party this past weekend.  It was a wonderful
time.  She got a Barbie bike with training wheels, dancing tutu's and
outfits, a Bitty Baby American Girl doll, and several other outfits and
toys.
[IMG_2542.JPG]
Although she really loves her Bitty Baby, you will see from the
following pictures that this birthday was all about Frosting!  I made
carrot cake cupcakes with cream cheese frosting.  Taylor tried to eat
the frosting off of as many cupcakes as she could get her fingers into.
I also made the famous family chocolate birthday cake, but mixed it up
a little bit with a ganache topping.  It was lovely, but entirely too
much effort for her when frosting was clearly her favorite.  Next year,
it's a can of Betty Crocker cream cheese frosting for Taylor...  the
guests will have to fend for themselves!  Or maybe I should admit now
that I am a chocolate lover and the chocolate might have been mainly
for myself.  :) [IMG_2548.JPG]
[IMG_2550.JPG] [IMG_2551.JPG]
[IMG_2554.JPG]
Yesterday was the one-year anniversary of when we found out that Taylor
was profoundly deaf.  I look back on the past year with amazement of
the journey that our family has been on.  From sorrow, grief and guilt
to joy, gratitude, and determination, we have experienced it all this
year.
How can you not love this kid?  Streaking around the house naked and
busting into a bag of Daylight Donuts, she is so full of life, energy,
enthusiasm, intelligence and affection, I am nothing but thankful for
getting to be her mom.
[IMG_2527.JPG]
Next word -- DONUTS!
Posted by Melinda Morgan at 6/10/2010 No comments:
Monday, May 24, 2010
K Week
Taylor is doing really well.  She had a great time with the
grandparents.  She is talking more and more.  At 8 months
post-activation, her receptive language is solidly in the 18 to 21
months range, with some skills in the 21 to 24 month range.   In terms
of speech, she is falling in the 18 to 21 month range.  This is
wonderful with only 8.5 months of listening age.
This is the link for last week's G lesson.
http://www.cochlearamericas.com/PDFs/Speech_Sounds_G_Plosive.pdf
For the current week, we are doing K.  Taylor loves kitties!  They are
her favorite animal.  We are going to try to focus on helping her learn
verbs.  Right now, she uses many nouns, but the only real verb she says
is Go.  We are going to try to expand that list, and hopefully using
kitties in some role play with help us keep her engaged.
[IMG_2431.JPG]
http://www.cochlearamericas.com/PDFs/Speech_Sounds_K_Plosive.pdf
Posted by Melinda Morgan at 5/24/2010 No comments:
Wednesday, May 12, 2010
G is for Grandparents!
This week, we've been working on G's! Derek and Taylor are staying with
two sets of grandparents this weekend.  They are geared up and ready to
go!
I found this on another blog and thought it was great for Mother's Day.
HERE’S TO THE MOMS
Here’s to the Moms who may not have “signed up” to parent a deaf or
hard of hearing child, but do so anyway with grace and love.
Here’s to the Moms who narrate every second of every day, not caring
what others may think.
Here’s to the Moms who put miles on their cars driving back and forth
to countless therapy sessions, doctor’s appointments, hearing aid
fittings, cochlear implant mappings, and more.
Here’s to the Moms who work hard to be their child’s best advocate and
primary language role model.
Here’s to the Moms who have had to learn a new language too fast full
of Auditory Verbal/Auditory Oral terms and audiological jargon.
Here’s to the Moms who face the “experts” and fight for their child’s
best interest in IFSP/IEP meetings and in those meetings where you are
just trying to make the system better.
Here’s to the Moms who can wrestle two CIs or HAs onto a squirming
toddler… and replace it 20-40 times each day, even in the car, without
loosing their cool.
Here’s to the Moms who can cook dinner, answer the phone, and change a
CI/HA battery without breaking a sweat.
Here’s to the Moms who constantly have to explain their child’s
“equipment” and answer the question "are those forever?"
Here’s to the Moms who have ever felt the pain of having a child who is
“different”.
Here’s to the Moms who never take a single word for granted.
Here’s to the Moms who never fail to astound me with their capacity to
persevere… and to love.
Posted by Melinda Morgan at 5/12/2010 5 comments:
Sunday, May 9, 2010
F Week, Flu, and Fun
We have focused on F words for the two weeks.  We've also been a sick
house for the past 9 days.  We missed Taylor's therapy appointment this
week.  Both kids have been sick and running fevers off and on.  They
have pretty bad coughs and no appetite.  We're pretty sure it's the
influenza, but keeping in the spirit of F words, the FLU.  Taylor's
fever got up to 101 degrees at one point.  With all that she's gone
through, this is the first time she's been sick other than a mild cold
with runny nose.
Even with the illness, Taylor has said so many new things.
Puppy
Ut oh
Okay?  ...she asked of Derek after he fell down.
Thank You
Derek!
Sleep
Choo (as she saw a train)
Where'd it go?
Yuck
Bird
Binky
Drink
It seems like she is adding multiple new words every day and it's
harder for us to keep track.  That's a good problem to have!  Today, we
are 8 months post-activation.  Happy Mother's Day!
Posted by Melinda Morgan at 5/09/2010 1 comment:
Monday, April 26, 2010
M Week and Life Lessons
We spent two weeks on M week. What can I say? Lots of important M
words... Of course, Mama is at the top of the list. I will remember
every day for the rest of my life that was the first sound that Taylor
made that sounded anything like a word - Mama - at 4 weeks
post-activation. Now, Taylor knows who her Mama is without question.
She has perfected saying "Mama" for several months now. She has a
beautiful "Meow", which she does as she follows our cat Mikea around
the house. She can say Mikea, but it more often comes out as the Kay-ah
part. She also tries to call our dog, Maverick. She'll pat herself on
the leg and go "Mav, Mav." At our last therapy appointment, she cracked
up Daddy and the therapist by saying "Oh My Gosh."
She helped Daddy mow the yard. I can't believe she tolerates riding on
the mower with her "ears" on, but I guess it doesn't bother her. Last
week, my husband took her to the grocery store and she said "hi" to
everyone she saw. Several people said hi back. It's amazing... you just
want to say -- hello, my deaf daughter just said hi to you. and she's
not even two yet! It is so cool to witness her truly enjoying her own
ability to communicate.
There are some times as a parent when it is really nice that she can
communicate verbally. It is still weird to me, but Taylor makes the
ame sounds and words now with and without her ears on. Sometimes, she
talks to herself quite a bit and we can listen to her through the baby
monitor without her realizing it. Last weekend, we put her down for her
nap around 2:30... didn't want it to be much later and have her up
until 10 p.m. She just wouldn't give it up and fall asleep though. We
were puzzled until I heard her go "Eeewwww. Peee Youuuu. Eeewwww." I
looked at her Dad and said "she's poopy." Sure enough, I run up there
-- Poop up her back, on her sheets, blankets and bumpy. I'm just glad
he hadn't gotten to the point of sticking her hands in it and wiping
it on something else. And so it goes...
I always have to throw in a little story on Derek too. He's the
3-year-old ruler of the universe, if you ask him. As of two weeks ago,
Derek is a champion pooper on the toilet, after 10 months of #1 on the
toilet, and no #2, we have total success!
We were taking the kids out and about one evening and offered to go to
a park close to home. The other option was to go Home. Derek says
"well, I don't like my choices!" He's THREE! Welcome to the real world.
One life lesson down, one million to go.
He is so funny... a great big brother in some many ways. I hope Taylor
keeps learning from him, just not quite in every way.
Posted by Melinda Morgan at 4/26/2010 1 comment:
Sunday, April 11, 2010
Oh SH!
[IMG_2357.JPG] This week, we did SH!  Lots of Shhhh!
For starters, Derek stepped in a big pile of this bull mastiff's sh**
(I mean, poop.)
[IMG_2334.JPG]
We washed our hair with shampoo and applied lotion.  We put on our
hirts, shoes, and shorts, and brushed our teeth.  It finally was warm
enough for some shorts.
[IMG_2345.JPG]
We got to look at our shadows outside and Shake our whole bodies to the
tune of Little Einsteins.  We tried to encourage sharing as we toasted
marshmallows.  We took out the trash and washed the cars.
We finally finished all of Taylor's immunzations. (Don't forget that
the words with "tion" are also SH words.) We still had a few 12-18
months shots left, but they are all done as of Friday. Yeah! No more
until kindergarten.
We visited to local Wildlife and Parks museum to get up close and
personal with some fish. Today's Sunday; maybe we can go get
a milkshake later.
http://www.cochlearamericas.com/PDFs/Speech_Sounds_SH_Fricative.pdf
I have to say, there are a lot more words with SH than I ever
realized.  It was a fun week.  Taylor is talking more and making more
ounds all the time.  She had one great day filled with "Dada" this
weekend.  Maybe D week is paying off a couple weeks later.
[IMG_2348.JPG]
Posted by Melinda Morgan at 4/11/2010 1 comment:
Wednesday, April 7, 2010
D Week! Hoping for More Dada's
Last week was D week at our house.  We brought out everything D,
including lots of time with Daddy since it was Easter weekend.  We
danced, dipped our hot dogs in ketchup, and road lots of rides at
Silver Dollar City.
[IMG_2285.JPG]
Oh, yeah, another D...  We drove, and drove, and drove some more.  We
drove from Kansas, to Oklahoma for a therapy appointment, and then we
drove on to Missouri, then back to Kansas on Sunday.  We are thankful
for the big D in our lives at these times, namely the DVD!  It helps to
make the drives bearable.
Here is the link to the Speech Sounds D week.  It is fun!
http://www.cochlearamericas.com/PDFs/Speech_Sounds_D_Plosive.pdf
We played with dolls, talked about dirty diapers, watched the ducks,
and fed the dog.  I think Taylor spent half of the weekend chasing my
mom's dog.  She had a great time with him.  We have a dog who is around
five years old.  My mom's dog is still a puppy, and he had the best
time running from Derek and Taylor.
Posted by Melinda Morgan at 4/07/2010 No comments:
Wednesday, March 24, 2010
P WEEK
It's "P" Week at our house!
Well, it started with the kids on Sunday before I had even announced it
was "P" Week.
Taylor is really good at fighting while getting her diaper changed, and
a poopy diaper fight resulted in my getting a poopy bottom flipping
over in my face and getting poop smeared on my chin.  As I'm finishing
the cleanup from that, Derek wants me to assist him in the bathroom
because he has decided to start peeing standing up, rather than
itting, and has peed all over the seat and floor.  I had rushed away
from Taylor before getting a fresh diaper on her, and when I came back
to her, she had peed on my bed.  Later that day, Derek peed on the
floor in the bathroom two more times while trying to figure out how to
pee standing.  Why he decided to start it on that day when his dad was
at work is beyond me.  And this was all in one afternoon.
The next day, we annouced it was "P" Week.  The Cochlear website has
ome really helpful educational materials, including Speech Sounds.
Please see the attached link:
http://www.cochlearamericas.com/Support/2294.asp
It has a weekly/bi-weekly instruction guide for various consonants,
complete with associated activities, words, books, songs, foods, etc.
It is great!  We are going to cover a consonant per week.  It is
working double-duty for both Taylor and Derek (age 3).
As I said, this is P week.  Our dog Maverick celebrated on Monday by
eating a mouse/rat/baby rabbit and then PUKING in our house.  The P's
continue...
On Tuesday, Derek started at Pre-school.  He was terrified when getting
dropped off, but perfectly happy about preschool when I picked him up.
So far this week, we have
Popped bubbles
Ate pizza, pineapple, and peanut butter
Napped!
Peeled carrots
Listened to a purple piccolo dinosaur on Little Einstein's
Hopped like a frog
Poured Sand
Ate Spaghetti
Wiped Up
Patted and clapped to music
Played with a Purse
and experienced Pee, Puke, and Poop.
We are loving P week and all of the language learning opportunities and
ideas that it is giving us.  Check it out!  19 weeks to go!
Posted by Melinda Morgan at 3/24/2010 2 comments:
Monday, March 15, 2010
Bling It! and More Words
Taylor is a girly-girl! We like to decorate her headbands and CI covers
to go with her outfits. We have quite a collection of headbands now,
and have 4 sets of the CI covers so far. See the "Hoorah for Headbands"
blog for more information on the headbands.
Taylor is talking more. She is saying a lot of words on her own without
my prompting, and then her repeating.
Our neighbors got a new kitten, and she said "Baby Kitty."
Derek was going potty and she said "Pee pee."
Daddy got home and she said "ya-ya". Sometimes we have heard her say
"Dada", but more often it still comes out "ya-ya".
She can point to her eye and say "eyes."
We have a mapping appointment this week. It has been about 3 months
ince the last mapping. We're hoping for even better results after this
appointment.
This week, Grandma and Grandpa were here. Grandma asked Derek to do
omething, and he said "Noooo!" Then Taylor helped the cause by adding
her "NNNNooooo!" My mom thought this was pretty funny. We have Skyped
with them, but they hadn't seen Derek and Taylor since early January.
They were impressed by her progress.
On the blog design, I had to take off the side posting about Words
Taylor Knows; it got too long months ago so I gave up on tracking that
one. I am still tracking Words Taylor Says. I know that she does say
more words than this, but I try to remember as many as possible. She is
tarting to add more words daily.
Posted by Melinda Morgan at 3/15/2010 2 comments:
Monday, March 8, 2010
From the Parent’s Perspective - Teaching Materials, etc.
Another month has gone by! How is that possible? Well, in the past
month, I’ve been to Jacksonville, Florida; Birmingham, Alabama; Kansas
City; and Oklahoma City (3 times.) I am feeling like a road warrior and
the road is starting to win the battle. I travel for my job, usually
once a month or so, but it has been more frequent in the past few
months, averaging around twice a month. Those were the trips to
Jacksonville and Birmingham. The Kansas City trip was for fun, to catch
up with family and friends that we haven’t seen in a long while. And
every Friday, we drive about 8 hours roundtrip to take Taylor to her
weekly therapy appointment. I’m actually writing this from the airport
in Memphis. Not much else to do in this airport – now at Atlanta’s
airport, I could go to the Xpress Spa for a pedicure. Maybe another
time…
Taylor is now 21 months old, and in a few more days, it will be six
months since her activation. While so much progress has been made, the
worry and analysis endures. Are we doing the right thing(s)? How much
therapy is enough? Should Mom keep working? What’s the right place/type
of therapy? Does Taylor need to go to an AV pre-school (necessitating a
family relocation?)
Last weekend, when we spent the weekend with friends who have a
daughter who is almost two and a half, I worried that Taylor’s Dad
would be making constant comparisons of the girls and how Taylor was
progressing. It’s kind of a double-edged sword because although we know
how far Taylor has come in less than six months, we do want to compare
her to other kids to see how she is doing – is she comprehending at an
age-appropriate level? Is she speaking at an age-appropriate level?
What would she be doing if she wasn’t deaf and could have heard from
the time that she was born? We are always between the happiness that
he is progressing well and the fear that our happiness with her
progression could lead to complacency. How good is good enough? Is
there a point of “good enough?” Enough work, enough reading, enough
words. There are still the rare times that it flat out makes me mad
that she has to go through all of this and couldn’t have just been born
hearing like most kids. The 5 hour surgery when she was really still a
baby. Learning to comprehend sound. All of the extra work to do
omething that doesn’t come naturally to her.
Our babysitter quit and last week was her final week. This week, we’ve
had super-Grandma Cherie watching the kids and they have been having
the best time. Next week, we have a new babysitter starting. This will
be the third one since Taylor was born. I really hope she stays with us
for a long time. It’s a tough transition for the kids and for the
parents.
Derek is going to start pre-school now that he’s 3. It will be 3 days a
week for about 2.5 hours, a great opportunity for him, and allows for
ome one-on-one time with Taylor. Working with her at home (i.e. books,
language development games) has been a challenge. We really have to
plit up and each take a kid. The simple books that we try to read with
Taylor are not enough to keep Derek’s interest. Due to my travel for
work and Dad’s work schedule, a lot of times in the evening, only one
of us is there, so one-on-one time can be a challenge. They’re only 17
months apart so these challenges are typical in some ways of any family
with 2 toddlers close together.
There are a couple of learning tools that we have been using for both
Derek and Taylor. The Your Baby Can Read set is great. There are
videos, books, flashcards videos, sliding word/picture cards. They are
nice for infants. We got the set when Taylor was 9 months old and she
really enjoyed them at that time. At 20 months, they don’t hold
Taylor’s interest. The books, flashcards, and sliding word/picture
cards are all great. They allow for us to do “audition” first, saying
the word as she sees it in written form, then sliding open to expose
the picture. They are great! Our 3-year-old son also enjoys these cards
and books. The pictures are very realistic, mostly photographs of
actual objects/forms rather than cartoonish illustrations like some
baby books. I can see them continuing to be useful until kindergarten
or so because it will help them with sight words.
After we found out Taylor was deaf, but before we had the CI surgery, I
bought the Signing Time set of videos and books. The videos are really
cute with good music. They show the written word as they verbalize it,
and then show children making the signs for it. They usually show very
cartoonish illustrations of the subject at hand. Overall, the videos
are really geared toward a hearing child who is learning to sign for
fun and to encourage earlier communication. I personally found them
frustrating because from my deaf child’s perspective, I couldn’t see
how she could possibly learn to associate the sign with the subject
because the pictures were cartoonish and shown minimally as compared to
howing the children doing the sign while they said it. I would only
encourage these if your child can hear normally or with hearing aids or
CI’s. As for the books/supplemental materials, I wasn’t happy with
these either because the illustrations are cartoonish and more focused
on showing the signs rather than the subject.
We have loved the DVD collections of Baby Einsteins (for 18 months or
younger) and the Little Einsteins (for about 15 months and up). They
have been wonderful and really encourage active listening.
Posted by Melinda Morgan at 3/08/2010 No comments:
Labels: cochlear implants, signing time, your baby can read
Newer Posts Older Posts Home
Subscribe to: Posts (Atom)
Taylor, Spring 2013
Subscribe To
[arrow_dropdown.gif] Posts
[subscribe-netvibes.png] [subscribe-yahoo.png] [icon_feed12.png] Atom
[arrow_dropdown.gif] All Comments
Search This Blog
Loading...
Followers
About Me
My Photo
Melinda Morgan
View my complete profile
Blog Archive
Ethereal template. Powered by Blogger.
