Extraordinary Ears - RSS

Taylor and Lauren's Extraordinary Ears
This is story of our daughters Taylor and Lauren, both with profound
hearing loss, and the journey of getting and utilizing cochlear
implants. Both have congenital deafness due to the Connexin 26 gene
mutation.
Friday, February 5, 2010
ORLANDO
We just returned from a family vacation to Orlando. What fun! We had
beautiful weather for the entire trip, several days above 80 degrees.
Taylor and Derek enjoyed the trip, starting with two airplane rides.
They were so excited to be on the airplane – Taylor even said
“airplane” a few times. It helped that she had Derek to imitate. He
loves planes, and it has rubbed off on her. In fact, when we landed in
Orlando, after leaving our house at 4 a.m. and taking two plane rides,
Derek wanted to know if we were going to get on another airplane. In
Orlando when we landed, they were so fascinated with the planes and the
baggage handlers that they stood at the window for a good while, even
getting the baggage handlers to wave at them. There was a lot of time
pent at the pool, which they loved. I think it’s good for the soul to
get outside in the sunshine and warmth in January, when you are really
getting tired of winter’s cold, dreary weather.
We went to Sea World for two days, and Disney’s Magic Kingdom for one
day. Here are a few pictures from those parks!
Mommy and Taylor at It's a Small World ride
Carousel
SHAMU
Taylor LOVED the MANATEES!
Taylor and Derek with the Dolphins
I’m sure that any of you with little ones know what it’s like to ride
elevators with two little kids, both so excited and wanting to be the
one privileged button-pusher. We were on the third floor at our resort,
tried to say “elevator”; she got out the right number of syllables and
you could tell that was what she was trying to say.
Every time we take a little vacation, I’m reminded of why they are so
needed. It reminds you that there’s a world out there besides the
mundane work of daily life. While it’s winter now, we have sunshine and
pring coming our way. For children, it provides chances for expansion
of the mind, as well as an opportunity for family togetherness and
bonding. This was our first trip since we found out that Taylor was
deaf and began this CI journey, and it was much needed.
For Taylor, I think she might have been a little worn out by the end of
the trip. On the third evening in Orlando, we were seated by a
waterfall at RainForest Cafe, enjoying the aquariums and views. Of
course, this was after a very long day at Magic Kingdom. I was holding
her and walking around the restaurant to give her better views of the
aquariums when I noticed that she was missing an "ear". I retraced my
teps and ended up back at the table -- no CI. We started looking under
the table. A couple seated next to us noticed the commotion and panic,
and kindly mentioned that they had seen Taylor throw something into the
waterfall. WHAT?!?! Jon and I both had our arms in the waterfall,
digging around everywhere. It was kind of bubbly so difficult to see. I
asked the waiter to get the waterfall turned off. It took them a little
bit, but finally, it went off and we were able to pluck the CI right
out. We let it dry out and it worked fine the next day! Here's the
waterfall!
Posted by Melinda Morgan at 2/05/2010 2 comments:
Labels: CI in water, cochlear implants, Disney, SeaWorld
Sunday, January 10, 2010
Freeze Dance!
[IMG_1936.JPG] It's getting harder and harder to write the blog,
because Taylor is seeming more and more like a "normal" hearing kid...
which makes me more happy than you can possibly imagine!!
Her most recent new word is Papa!!  We still haven't gotten a Dada out
of her yet though, poor Daddy.  She must be saving the best for last.
She is regularly saying Mama, Bye, Hi, Meow, and several others.  No
"D" sounds at all yet.
Taylor just passed the 19-month mark.  In the past few weeks, she has
gotten to be really good at putting the coil back on her head by
herself.  If she loses an "ear" all together, she'll walk right to us
to get it fixed...  that is, if she is in a good mood.  If she's
irritable and tired, sometimes she rips them off just to get our
attention.
She loves music, and has become quite the little dancer.  Taylor is an
excellent imitator.  We watch "The Little Einsteins" quite a bit on our
therapy trips to Oklahoma City, and I think she imitates June, the
dancer.  She just gets up on her tip-toes, prances around, and spins in
circles.  So cute!
[IMG_1983.JPG]
Over Christmas and New Year's, we also had our anniversary and Derek's
3rd birthday.  Taylor got to go sledding for the first time.  She was a
good sport about it, considering how cold it was.
[IMG_1984.JPG]
Christmas gave us and our families the chance to load Taylor up with
noisy toys, like a guitar, microphone, speaking/learning toys.  She
also got a play kitchen that she really loves.  I am thankful for all
of these new toys that allow us to role-play and add verbal
opportunities into her normal playtime activities.
[EMBED] video
Posted by Melinda Morgan at 1/10/2010 2 comments:
Friday, December 18, 2009
Loving the Nucleus 5 Processors
Another week has gone by. We have pretty much gotten the Nucleus 5
processors figured out. The difference between the new and the old
(Nucleus Freedom) has been amazing! Taylor has really started trying to
ay words. This week alone, she has tried to say Waffle, Ball, Baby,
Moo (as in a cow), and she is a PRO at saying Mama. :)
Once we got the new processors on her, with the appropriate settings
and volume, she has loved them. She tries to put them back on herself.
She has made an immediate and drastic improvement in her attempts to
babble and to speak actual words.
The decorative covers are really cute too. We have the lavendar swirl
ones and some pink camo covers.
We talked to our insurance company again this week, and they said they
will be covering the surgery. I'm still waiting to see the EOB for
confirmation.
Stay tuned for pictures and video.
Posted by Melinda Morgan at 12/18/2009 4 comments:
Tuesday, December 8, 2009
Happy Times - Taylor is 18 months!
Taylor turned 18 months last Friday. It has been 6 months this week
ince we found out that Taylor is deaf. At her therapy session last
Friday, Taylor was tested to see how well she is progressing. It had
been 12 weeks since her activation. In terms of word recognition and
cognition, Taylor now has the word recognition of ....... (drumroll,
please............) an average 18-month old!!!!! She has in 12 weeks
caught up to that of an average child her age. WE ARE THRILLED! This
isn't the case for her verbal skills -- she is babbling more like a
baby, maybe 10-12 months. She says Mmmm, Mama, Hi, and other than that,
he makes sounds like wa wa, Oh, etc. Still no consistent dada or baba.
She really likes music and is a great little dancer as she hums along
with the music. Yesterday, we received a couple of very interesting
items in the mail. Nucleus 5 Processors!! Amazingly small, with a great
iPod-like remote to control volumes and programming, love it. It
upposedly came with Taylor's maps on it, but she didn't like them and
kept taking them off. Next Thursday, we have a mapping appointment, so
I will let the audiologist get them mapped and wait until then for
Taylor to wear them. Copies of Letters between our insurance and Blue
Cross/Blue Shield in which BC/BS is denying payment of her surgery
because it "wasn't deemed medically necessary." This is ludicrous
considering that they approved the bilateral CI surgery back in July.
Any advice??? At the end of the day, when I look back at the past 6
months, I am so happy and thankful that Taylor is doing so well. If I
have to pay $100k for her to have unlimited opportunity, then I guess I
will, but not without one heck of a fight with BC/BS.
Posted by Melinda Morgan at 12/08/2009 3 comments:
Monday, November 30, 2009
Proof is in the Pointing
Taylor is now pointing at words in her books if we ask her to. This is
the best evidence ever! And particularly handy since she is only 17
months old and most kids wouldn't point out things at 17 months. So
far, she has pointed to airplane, flower, fish, and bottle when asked.
I'm sure she knows more words... It's a limited attention span that
gets us. :) We are thrilled to have this evidence of her learning and
progress. Taylor is also babbling a lot more these days. She will try
to "sing" along with music. She really loves The Little Einsteins and
inging with their characters. "Aaaahhhhhhhhh!" as they are trying to
make the airplane fly higher and higher. If she hears anyone laugh, she
looks to see where it is coming from and usually joins in with laughter
of her own! I can tell that she LOVES being able to hear with us! We
can't wait to get the Nucleus 5, the upgraded version of the sound
processor. Thanks for your notes and comments.
Posted by Melinda Morgan at 11/30/2009 2 comments:
Thursday, November 12, 2009
Learning Language
For Halloween, Taylor was a little leopard, and Derek was a Chicago
Bears football player. They were both so cute. The weather was great!
It was a good night.
Taylor has really been progressing. I don't know where November has
gone. We are already planning Thanksgiving, and this is my first post
of the month.
For the first month or so post-activation, Taylor made lots of
meaningless sound. She was always a pretty noisy kid (so much for the
tereotype that deaf kids are mute), and once she had the CI's, she was
constantly making noise, especially if she was upset or bored. I would
try to start singing or make some interesting sound to get her
attention back to "listening." Starting about 2 weeks ago, or 6 -7
weeks post-activation, that noise-making really dropped off. She is
really quiet most of the time, unless we take her Ears off... then she
is back to chattering, but she doesn't realize it. She is still saying
Mama, and MMMmmm (as in food is GOOD), and she will still say Mama even
without her Ears on if she wants me.
Overall, although the list of words that we think she knows continues
to grow, I am feeling frustrated at how to teach her that she has own
voice. She has "Mama" down; she does do some high-pitched squealing; if
we're singing, she will try to hum along. We (mom and dad) would like
to see more babbling or exploring her voice. Trying to put myself in
her shoes, I can see that she is concentrating so hard on figuring out
all of the sounds and the meaning of the words that we are saying. From
that perspective, I am thrilled. She is trying to hard to absorb,
absorb. She will sit through 10 books or more! (at 17 months) Her
attention span is impressive (at least to me.)
I'll close with a description of our last therapy appointment:
We were playing with our AV therapist. The whole family came to the
appointment - Mom, Dad, Derek and Taylor. We were taking turns playing
with some toys, and got to a drum. It was Taylor's turn to play the
drum, and she was banging away. The therapist said "Stop," and Taylor
just stopped and held the drumsticks in the air. We were shocked! So,
we decided to test it again. She was playing away, the therapist said
"stop," and she stopped right away. Same thing, drumsticks in the air,
he just froze. The third time we tried it, Dad said "stop," and again
he stopped. We did it again just to make sure she really knew "Stop",
and does she ever!
I'm fairly sure that she has heard me say "stop" about 200 times in the
two months that she's had Ears. After all, she has a two-year old
brother.
Posted by Melinda Morgan at 11/12/2009 1 comment:
Monday, October 26, 2009
Dancing!! and other humorous moments...
Taylor has started dancing. She likes her musical Halloween cards in
particular. Derek & Taylor got two musicals cards for Halloween --
Alvin & The Chipmunks and Scooby Doo. Soo cute! I am trying so hard to
get this on video. Standby for the video addition.
One of the first things that we did in therapy was a "Shhhh, Wake up"
game. It's a good way to know if she is hearing the "Shhh", plus it's
just plain old fun. She tries to play it by herself now... and if we
just whisper "SShhh", she'll turn her head to the side and close her
eyes like she fell asleep.
She also has started high-pitched squealing and imitation of lots of
ranges of sounds. If I sing, she'll try to go along with me... not the
words so much, more the tune.
We play an airplane game where we go "ahhhhh" and move our hand up and
down like an airplane. Jon just made the "ahh" sound, and she started
moving her hand like the airplane. We were in the family with room with
toys and books strewn across the carpet. Taylor was sitting on my lap.
I asked her to go get me a book to read, and she got down, picked up a
book, and came back to me. :) This week at our therapy appointment, we
aid "Bababa" into a little bucket, and got her to imitate us. Next, we
tried "Shhh" and she again imitated us and tried to say "Shhh." We have
had some success getting her to do this at home. It's odd... we are
trying to teach her the power of her own voice. There are lots of fun
things happening... too many to write, but we are seeing progress!
Posted by Melinda Morgan at 10/26/2009 3 comments:
Labels: cochlear implants, toddler
Wednesday, October 14, 2009
Hoorah for Headbands
A frequent conversation among parents of little ones with cochlear
implants -- How are you keeping them on your little roly-poly,
wrestling, climbing toddler?
I originally started out with some Goodie elastic women's headbands.
They were working great, but you needed two, one to hold each CI. And
they were elastic, so sometimes Taylor would pull on them and end up
napping herself in the face, like a rubberband. Not good.
We go to a parent's group of deaf/hard of hearing kids in Wichita.
There, I met another mom of a little girl with bilateral CI's. Her
grandma had sewn her a headband with loops to hold the CI processor on.
It works so well and looks great! The super sewing grandma hooked me up
and offered to make some for Taylor. So far, we have light pink and
dark pink, with others on the way. Mom, Dad, and the babysitters are
thrilled! These pictures were taken while I was making some pies and
whipped cream (on Taylor's mouth) last weekend.
(If you want a headband for your child, I can give you her contact
information.) I love it so much, even if I had a boy, he'd be wearing
it as a sweatband... maybe with a fake Nike swoosh or some kind of
porty decoration. It makes life with CI's and a 1-year old that much
easier.
Posted by Melinda Morgan at 10/14/2009 34 comments:
Saturday, October 10, 2009
Taylor Talks!!
Taylor had her cochlear implants activated 4 weeks ago... On Wednesday,
we thought we heard her say a word but weren't for sure. On Thursday,
the same word came out - Mama!!!
Ha! A victory for Moms Everywhere! We all know that babies usually say
Dada first. Not Taylor. She had a wonderful, amazing gift for her
Mommy. Daddy was trying to take her away from me and she said "Mama"!
I will remember that moment for the rest of my life. The fact that my
profoundly deaf daughter is learning to talk is a blessing so
magnificent that I can barely comprehend it, certainly more than I
dared to hope... all that we have done since the day we found out that
he was deaf, June 8, was working toward this moment. And although we
believed in the technology of the cochlear implant and the therapy that
we have been working on, and even having met other children that have
only had the implants for a few months or years, still I was prepared
for nothing and afraid to hope for all...
In the booth testing prior to the mapping, Taylor easily heard a sound
at 20 dB and a frequency of 1000 Hz. Above you can see that the normal
range of hearing is 20 dB or below. Taylor is already hearing at normal
levels!!
This week we went back for another mapping of the devices. "Mapping" is
a programming process to fine-tune the CI for Taylor. She was a very
patient little 16-month old, sitting for over an hour. She was playing
with some toys, and they were trying to condition her to look at the
puppy dogs or bears when she heard a sound. Instead, she just started
repeating the sound back when she heard it. "Beep, Beep. Beep, beep."
22 electrodes on each side... The audiologist and therapist were
laughing at Taylor's creativeness. It also made Jon and I wonder how
often she was imitating us when we thought she was just making "noise."
Taylor is showing us her growth in receptive language. Today I asked
her to pick up the diaper, and she picked it up. She also knows the
word "shoes." (That's my girl!) We have been working with her on family
pictures and names. She knows Daddy, Derek (brother), and Katie (our
babysitter.) -- probably many others but this is just a start.
Posted by Melinda Morgan at 10/10/2009 2 comments:
Labels: Cochlear implant activation, talking
Thursday, October 1, 2009
So Many Exciting Changes
This has been an amazing week. I always try to be extremely cautious
about what I claim that Taylor does when writing the blog. There was
uch a long time period of her life that I thought she could hear, so I
don't always trust myself to be an unbiased critic.
BUT.....
According to Grandma M, Taylor recognized my voice on the phone! Her
Dad had her in Ok City for her therapy appointment, and she was crying
her little eyes out. I called his cell phone and he held it up to her
ear so I could talk to her. She stopped crying and started smiling!!
Ahhh.
According to both of our wonderful nannies, Taylor has started doing
ome great new things this week. She will move her mouth like she is
talking, but doesn't make any sound. (I really want to get this on
video.) She rubbed her tummy and said "MMmmm," imitating Derek and the
babysitter, during snack time. She also tried to imitiate some other
word-like sounds, even once sounding like she said "Uh-huh" for a
ucker. Another time, Katie said "Let's go upstairs" and Taylor started
heading for the stairs.
According to her Dad, he is noticing big changes this week too. They
were playing and wrestling, and she started imitating sounds he was
making. :)
These are all very little, but very BIG, things. It is so important
that she start to understand the meaning of words, and recognize that
he has her own little voice in there.
Taylor seems to think all bodily functions are hilarious right now.
Burps will turn her head at any moment. She even did a fake burp
tonight.
Coughing - she will imitate us or even purposefully cough to try to get
us to cough back.
Spitting (or sound of spitting)
Gargling, thanks to Derek... her brother, sidekick and partner in
crime.
It makes sense that Taylor will go through a learning process for sound
imilar to a newborn baby. At 3 weeks post-activation, I would say she
is about like a 6-8 month old baby. She is going through the same
learning progression, at a more rapid pace.
I continue to be amazed by Taylor's ability to adapt to the new world
of sound, and I am so thankful that cochlear implants exist.
Posted by Melinda Morgan at 10/01/2009 1 comment:
Wednesday, September 23, 2009
Taylor's Top Ten List and TODDLERS!
Well, it is impossible to write this without wanting to share a couple
of recent happenings with Derek, Taylor's 2 1/2 year old brother.
The other night, after Derek's bath, I was sitting on the floor putting
his lotion on, with the pajamas ready to go. He was standing up, so I
asked him to go grab a diaper for me... Derek's response, "Why, Mommy?
Are your arms broken?" Hmmm, I'm picturing a big smart aleck during the
teen years.
Another recent adventure - We have to drive 3 1/2 hours to Oklahoma
City for Taylor's therapy appointments. Derek is potty-training and
Taylor still wears diapers. Two hours into the drive, Derek has to go
potty. I swing the car into the first place I see - Sonic. With a
Bathroom. Whew! I have to take them both in the bathroom, and change
Taylor's diaper as well, but of course there is no changing table. And
did I mention that Taylor is fascinated with the toilet right now?
Well, Derek is on the toilet going potty, and I had Taylor standing up
as I tried to change her diaper... I look up to see her putting toilet
paper in the toilet, her hand going right into the stream of potty...
then I try to pick her up and away, only to have her put her arm around
me getting some of the potty on my face. Oh yeah, these are the moments
that Motherhood is made of. And finally, as Taylor's Mom, I'm taking
the liberty of mind-reading and creating a Top Ten List for her, since
he can't quite tell us yet. Here goes:
Top Ten Things that Taylor thinks are Really COOL since Activation:
10. Water running from faucet
9. Wind chimes (we always have wind in Kansas!)
8. Wind, especially blowing through the trees (yes, there are some
trees in Kansas.)
7. Lawnmowers
6. Taylor pretending to Sleep & Wake Up game, her own twist on an AV
therapy game
5. Taylor slamming cabinet doors
4. Taylor throwing her cup to the floor
3. Our cat meowing
2. When anyone Sings Songs!
1. Getting to hear her family laugh - she always starts laughing too!
Posted by Melinda Morgan at 9/23/2009 3 comments:
Sunday, September 20, 2009
It's the Little Things
We had another mapping session on 9/16 where she got turned up a little
with 2 new programs. She did great in the mapping session, definitely
howing intelligence and tolerance to stimulation. She has been wearing
her CIs without much fuss, besides in the morning when first putting
them on. I liken it to the alarm clock in the morning. It always seems
lowly turn her up as the day goes on. Taylor has now been "turned on"
to the world for 11 days. She has shown us some little reactions to
ound that normally we would take for granted. But for me, these little
reactions have meant everything. When Derek was born, he failed his
newborn hearing test. Being the paranoid father, I would occasionally
make a squeaking noise to check his reaction. He would always squint
his eyes or blink to the sound. After Taylor failed her newborn hearing
test, I would do the same thing but never got a reaction. This past
week, I have made that noise a few times. Each time she blinks in
response to the noise. She also does it when a door shuts or she drops
her sippy cup on the floor (which she now thinks is hilarious and does
it all the time). Seeing her blink in response to noise may not seem
like a lot, but it's all I wanted her to do when she was younger and
never did. We now are getting an opportunity to watch her learn noises
like a newborn. It is an incredible feeling.
Posted by Melinda Morgan at 9/20/2009 2 comments:
Sunday, September 13, 2009
Another Dimension!!
Taylor had her cochlear implants activated on September 9 and 10, 2009.
Age 15 months.
Day 1:
Impossible for all of us to imagine, but Taylor never knew sound
existed until Wednesday, September 9, 2009. For this little 15-month
old, who thought she had the world pretty well figured out, it was a
mind-blowing experience. The best word that I can think of to describe
her reaction was terrified, at first anyway... The video is only 2
minutes long but will give you an idea of what it was like. She cried a
lot that first afternoon, but after about an hour or so, she calmed
down and started playing as usual.
Day 2: We were warned that the most difficult part of transitioning to
wearing a CI is putting it on each morning, to go from complete silence
to the loud world of sound. I put the CI on her when she first woke up
on Thursday morning, and she cried and fussed for about 30 minutes
before settling into wearing it. She wasn't trying to take it off; I
think she was freaked out by those "sounds" being there again... like
maybe the day before was some weird dream.
I have been buying random headbands, hats and even a shirt
(http://www.hearingpocket.com/) that I thought we might be able to use
for keeping the CI's on her head. I bought a set of four women's Goody
elastic headbands at my local grocery store, and they seem to be
working well. The fact that she is leaving the CI's and headbands on
really says it all. We can't even get her to hold still for a diaper
change. Changing her clothes is like wrestling a greased pig. But with
all that, she is keeping the headband on. All day long. It really only
came off when she was playing or wrestling with Derek.
We could see the exhaustion on her face as the day wore on. By 11 a.m.,
he was napping and slept about 90 minutes. We had the activation for
the right side on Thursday afternoon. During this activation, Taylor
got a little upset when the device was being tested, but other than
that, she was great. We went home with two little CI's on her head. :)
She slept almost 2 hours in the car driving back to Kansas. Learning to
listen is a lot of work.
Day 3 - First Day with Two Ears Again this morning Taylor went through
a short time of being upset when we first got the CI's turned on. She
left them alone, but wanted to be held and comforted by me for a while.
She started showing signs of a lot of excitement today. The look on her
face was like "I am in a whole new world and I like it!" She had a good
nap, but was still getting mentally exhausted by early evening. Her
brain is working so hard to figure it all out -- wind, crickets,
lawnmowers, Derek saying "mine" and "No, Taylor", etc. He says "No,
Taylor" so often that I am afraid she will think that is her name.
Days 4 and 5 Taylor is having fun with this. She looks up right away
when I say her name or just speak in general. She has figured out that
our cat meows and thinks it is hilarious. She knows that our dog's bark
is really loud and thinks this too is so funny. I have enjoyed playing
old games with her, now that she can appreciate the sound portion as
well. We played Peek-a-boo, and she made me laugh by covering her
face/eyes when I did and then uncovering them when I said Peek-a-boo.
She was waiting to hear me, before she would move her hands. So cool.
Our family has learned several signs in the past few months, and now I
am using those in conjunction with speaking the world in the hopes that
it will help her recognize words. It is going to be fun to see how she
picks it all up. We are so thankful that cochlear implants exist.
BLING! We have been having fun decorating her "Ears." Today she had
pink and purple headbands, with pink "ears". The right one was
accesorized with a purple cover, to coordinate (serving a dual-purpose
as we have to keep right and left sides separate.)
Posted by Melinda Morgan at 9/13/2009 6 comments:
Labels: Cochlear implant activation
Tuesday, September 8, 2009
Just As You Are...
Does anyone remember in the movie "Bridget Jones' Diary" when Mark
Darcy says to Bridget -- "I like you just as you are"? And all of
Bridget's friends couldn't believe he'd said that, thinking it was so
amazing. How often do any of feel like we are loved just as we are? I
just felt like I needed to go on the record that Taylor is perfect as
he is, regardless of what happens with the CI activation tomorrow and
the years to come. She is one of the most joyful, loving, determined
and outgoing children that I have ever known. There is much controversy
about getting CI implants in deaf children before they have the ability
to make the choice for themselves. I hope that by doing this, we are
giving her the choice to hear or be deaf later in life. Otherwise,
Taylor's decisions to talk, listen, and communicate verbally with all
of us would never be an option for her, so profound is her loss. So,
here's to opening doors.... Enjoy the video. She was tackling her
cousin, 5 days after the CI surgery, with a little help from Derek.
[EMBED] video [EMBED] video
Posted by Melinda Morgan at 9/08/2009 4 comments:
Tuesday, September 1, 2009
We want Cochlear Implants, stat!
There is such a range of emotions that parents experience when finding
out that their child is deaf. I won't expound in great detail on it,
but I will say that I have relived every day and every memory that I
had of Taylor back to her birth, how she reacted to certain situations
and what I would have done differently had I known that she was deaf.
But I am a person of action, and revisiting the past isn't going to get
us anywhere. What to do? We had done research before the diagnosis, and
knew cochlear implants would be our preference for Taylor if she was
profoundly deaf. Let me give you an idea of what the summer was like:
June 8 - ABR, diagnosis Profoundly Deaf; first appointment with
otolaryngologist/CI surgeon June 10 - CT scan to rule out tumors and
ensure the anatomy was normal and would allow CI June 12 - Second
appointment with otolaryngologist; Speech therapist appointment June 15
- Pediatric cardiologist appointment to rule out any syndromic deafness
with associated heart conditions. (None found) June 19 - Appointment
with Audiologist. Taylor got her hearing aids. June 26 - Speech
therapist appointment. No benefit shown with the aids. July 21 - First
appointment with new otolaryngologist at Hough Ear Institute in OkC.
Genetic testing sample taken. July 27 - Audiologist appointment. No
benefit with aids. July 27 - Wichita Otolaryngologist appointment.
Their Goal for her CI surgery, on one side - November. Taylor would be
17 months old. Not acceptable to us. July 28 - Genetic testing results,
2 recessive copies of Connexin 26 gene mutation. August 3 - First
meeting at Hearts for Hearing, our audioverbal therapy center in OkC.
August 10 - BILATERAL COCHLEAR IMPLANT surgery at the Hough Ear
Institute!! Age 14 mo.
This glosses over so many important decisions that we had to make along
the way: To sign or not to sign (We are!) ASL or SEE or Baby Sign? We
elected SEE, Sign Exact English. Nucleus Freedom or Advanced Bionics -
elected Cochlear's Nucleus Freedom. Implant on one side or both? BOTH!
Simultaneous or Bilateral surgery? She had both implants done at the
ame time. What colors of implants? What types of processors? What
causes deafness? How do we get genetic testing? Do we drive 7 hours
roundtrip for audioverbal therapy for the next few years? And then
there are all of the long-term decisions that we'll have to make --
will we h ave to move to a larger city with better access to schools
and therapy? With a 25% chance of having another deaf child, should we
have more children? And how do we get involved to make the process
easier for the parents that come after us? CI Activation Date:
September 9, 2009. Location: Hearts for Hearing, Oklahoma City
Posted by Melinda Morgan at 9/01/2009 9 comments:
Labels: advanced bionics, cochlear implants, connexin 26, genetic
causes of deafness, nucleus freedom
Monday, June 8, 2009
Our daughter is deaf?!?!
Taylor, Born June 4, 2008. 6 pounds, 11 oz. She was welcomed into this
world by an older brother, Derek, age 17 months. Derek didn't pass his
newborn hearing screening when he was born. At the follow-up exam when
he was one-month old, he passed... whew, no more worries for the new
parents. By the time Taylor was born, Derek was talking away. When
Taylor didn't pass her newborn hearing screening, we weren't concerned.
After all, the same thing had happened with Derek, 17 months earlier.
No family history of deafness. Taylor proceeded to amaze us with how
fast she progressed; she was very attentive early on, smiling early,
laughing whole-heartedly at her brother by 3 months old... She has the
most magical laugh. I hope it doesn't change once she can "hear" with
the cochlear implants. Taylor was ahead of the milestones on physical
development, across the board. She started walking at just over 10
months. She was also so very social and in tune with everyone in her
environment. As her parents, we started to get concerned at around 8
months when we noticed that her babbling wasn't changing. She made
raspberries noises, and would cough or smack her lips in imitation of
us, but there weren't any word-like pronunciations such as mama, dada,
baba, etc. We made an appointment to get her hearing re-tested by an
audiologist at 11 months. She again did not pass the OAE exam. The
audiologist suggested that we wait another two months and see if we
could tell if she understood any words that we said, regardless of what
Taylor was speaking to us. She just didn't think that Taylor acted like
a deaf child. (More on that later...) At that point, my husband and I
were very seriously concerned, and we realized that whether she had a
hearing problem or not wasn't something that we were going to wait
another two months on... 13 months! No way. We made an appointment with
an ENT to analyze Taylor further. Her ears appeared to be in excellent
condition. He again said the same thing as the audiologist had -- she
didn't act like a deaf child. Hmmm. This is a child with no history of
ear infections or fevers; she has never even had a cold. He referred us
to a center in Wichita for further testing of her hearing. We called to
immediately schedule an appointment, but it was almost a month for them
to get us in. June 8, 2009 was the day. We had our ABR test. In babies,
the most effective way to test their hearing is to conduct an Auditory
Brainstem Response test. Basically, they put the child to sleep with
anesthesia, emit sounds to the ears and test for brainwaves. Prior to
the test, two audiologists observed Taylor and how she interacted with
them, toys, stuffed animals, and cell phones. Again, one of the
audiolgists commented to us that it appeared Taylor had heard something
he said. Well, the results of the test were simple: No brain waves
hown at any point, at any decibel level. She is profoundly deaf.
Posted by Melinda Morgan at 6/08/2009 2 comments:
Labels: cochlear implants, congenital deafness, connexin 26
Newer Posts Home
Subscribe to: Posts (Atom)
Taylor, Spring 2013
Subscribe To
[arrow_dropdown.gif] Posts
[subscribe-netvibes.png] [subscribe-yahoo.png] [icon_feed12.png] Atom
[arrow_dropdown.gif] All Comments
Search This Blog
Loading...
Followers
About Me
My Photo
Melinda Morgan
View my complete profile
Blog Archive
Ethereal template. Powered by Blogger.
